Many weeks after the events of Miss Congeniality (2000), in which she infiltrated the Miss United States beauty pageant and saved Cheryl Frasier's (Heather Burns's) life, a customer recognizes FBI agent Gracie Hart (Sandra Bullock) and blows her cover while she tries to thwart a bank heist. Realizing that Gracie's life as an undercover agent is over, FBI assistant director Harry McDonald (Ernie Hudson) decides to capitalize on her publicity by offering to appoint her as a Media Relations Officer. Although she isn't taking her recent break-up with agent Eric Matthews, who has since been reassigned to Miami, well, Gracie reluctantly accepts the new position. To fill the void left by the departure of Matthews, the FBI transfer agent Sam Fuller (Regina King) from Chicago to New York. Sam has some deep-seated anger issues, much like Gracie before her experience at the pageant, and they don't take to each other at all.Ten months later, with the help of style coach Joel Meyers (Diedrich Bader) and a best-selling book about her experiences as an undercover agent behind her, Gracie has become a designer-clad darling of the media and the new "face" of the FBI as she appears on several morning TV programs to dish out some fashion advice and promote the new book. Although the "new" Gracie is the exact opposite of Sam, this doesn't stop Harry from appointing Sam as Gracie's new bodyguard, to Sam's chagrin.When the FBI find out that Cheryl, who is the current Miss United States, and the long-running pageant host Stan Fields (William Shatner) are kidnapped in Las Vegas, they send Gracie and Sam there. When they arrive at the FBI's Las Vegas field office, the office's assistant director Walter Collins (Treat Williams) only wants Gracie to be the case's media spokesperson while his own agents try and find Gracie's friends, but Gracie goes against his orders and goes undercover to try to find them herself. Sam joins her after getting a lead from video footage of the kidnapping that suggests that it may be Stan rather than Cheryl who is the kidnappers' main target. The FBI are unwilling to lose their "mascot" and have their doubts about whether Gracie is still up to the task. Gracie gets some leads of her own, but when she reports them back to Walter, he dismisses them. This makes Gracie more determined to continue her undercover work, and she has to put her differences with Sam aside so they can work together on following their leads. They are joined in their investigations by Joel and an insecure agent, Jeff Foreman (Enrique Murciano).The kidnappers move Stan and Cheryl to the pirate ship at the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino, and make plans to blow the ship up. Gracie, Sam and Joel arrive at the Oasis Drag Club where they dress up as singers and end up performing a number of songs from Tina Turner as part of the club's talent contest. Another contestant who is dressed up as Dolly Parton tells them where Stan and Cheryl are located. Gracie and Sam have to infiltrate the pirate show Sirens of TI and elude other agents deployed by Walter, who is determined to put Gracie and Sam on a plane back to New York and claim the sole credit for solving the case, in order to rescue Stan and Cheryl and save the day.