Jabari (Kid Cudi) has just moved into a Manhattan apartment, and he gets the help of two men from a moving company. He tips one 20 dollars, but he informs him that he can't help him carry his last item. Jabari wishes him well and carries his last item into his new house. When Jabari carries his heavy figure into his apartment, he encounters a lady. He doesn't pay too much attention and finally makes it into his brand-new home.He bikes to a local Chinese takeaway and when he bikes back, his ex-girlfriend, Carmen (Laura Harrier) calls him over and Jabari lets her know that he has just moved into Manhattan, and he got a job at Cosmic Comics and how they want to make Jabari's Mr Rager art character into a comic. Carmen invites Jabari for a drink to celebrate his big success later on in the future, he agrees and bikes home.He goes home and invites Jimmy (Timothée Chalamet) and Ky (Ty Dolla $ign) over and Ky gives Jabari some advice about Carmen. Ky thinks that Carmen only came back to Jabari's life because of his promotion and tries to convince Jabari to turn his apartment into a private stripping flat. Jimmy thinks that he should make his apartment a grow house, but Jabari rejects the ideas and passes out.Jabari, later on, wakes up and he walks to his window to look at the Manhattan sky and people. He, later on, takes out his phone and DMs Carmen and asks her if she's still down for the drink. Jabari encounters the same lady but still doesn't pay attention to her. Carmen and Jabari meet up and they get drunk and eventually hook up.In the morning, Jabari gets woken up and Carmen hands him her phone and tells him that her mother wants to talk to him. She asks him if he could come to her niece's christening and Jabari confesses to Carmen that they don't work together as a good couple. Jabari leaves after trying to become friends with Carmen and bikes home after a failed attempt to get a cab's attention.The next day, Jabari, Ky and Jimmy take drugs and go out to several parties, but Jabari gets hungover the next day at work. He gets a call from Jimmy, and he tells him how to get over a hangover. Jimmy hangs up and Len (Arturo Castro), one of Jabari's co-workers, gives him a Japanese worry plant and tries to dispirit Jabari. He falls asleep and dreams about Mr Rager trying to kill him in every possible way. Later on, another Mr Rager (Keith David) saves Jabari and shows him what his new look is like. Jabari wakes up and realises that if he continues working at Cosmic Comics, they'll completely change Mr Rager.When he gets home, he gets an unwanted delivery message for liquor and Jabari tells him that he didn't order any. Afterwards, he hears music from his neighbour, and he goes to them to reduce the volume. He meets Reed (Christopher Abbott) and they don't get along as well. During this, Meadow (Jessica Williams) comes over to them and Jabari instantly falls in love, still not knowing that she was the same person he didn't pay attention to.He thinks about Meadow while he masturbates but gets a knock on his door. It's Meadow and Jabari quickly shuts the door and tries to hide his erection. He opens the door, making an excuse that his door slamming by itself all the time and Meadow invites him for lunch and Jabari agrees. They walk to Meadow's secret spot, and she orders a special meal for Jabari and herself. While they're waiting, Meadow tells Jabari about her art and how it's going to be in a museum for an exhibition. Jabari congratulates her and tells her that he makes street art and one of them is Mr Rager. Meadow tells him that she's a fan and Jabari tells her that he's working on a comic in Cosmic Comics. Meadow isn't as thrilled and tells him to get his own hands on his art. They get their food and Meadow cons him by buying him a vegan burger.They walk around Manhattan and come across a garbage dead end. Jabari unveils his first Mr Rager art piece and Meadow takes a photo of Jabari and of his work and returns back to their apartments.A few hours later, Ky and Jabari walk out of his apartment and Ky tells him a story about a lady that he met at a laundry room in his building. They had sex for a long, hard time and then a few days later the police came to Ky's apartment. They explain that the girl was a Russian hacker and Ky got charged for housing her. Jabari tells him that the girl was technically not his neighbour but still tells him not to date Meadow.Karina (Vanessa Hudgens), Meadow's pregnant best friend, confronts her about taking Jabari out on a date and asks her if she had been curious about Reed's pleasure but Meadow tells her that she isn't interested in any white man.Reed picks her up and brings her to a vaginal party. They meet Sydnie (Francesca Reale), Reed's ex-girlfriend and introduces her to Meadow. Coincidentally, Meadow and Jabari meet, and they get out of the party. They ride home on Jabari's bike and when they get home, Meadow masturbates while thinking about Jabari.The very next day, Karina tells Meadow about how her husband, Rob, had sex on their first date. She also advises her to follow her Punan and make the fact that she met someone a big deal. Ky and Jimmy advise Jabari that he should also have sex with Meadow but Meadow and Jabari both disagree.When, they get home, Meadow was at the point of knocking on Jabari's door but when he opens, they have sex. They, later on, become a happy couple and spend time with each other.One night, Meadow wakes up and checks her phone but finds a picture of Carmen half naked on Jabari's. Disappointed, she falls asleep but the next day, Jabari finds out that Meadow left and may have seen the text. Jabari, Jimmy and Jordan (Jaden Smith) head to a skate park and Jabari shows Jimmy the text and the picture. Jordan shares that he's avoiding his ex despite her not knowing that she is his ex. Then, Downtown Pat (Macaulay Culkin) comes in and crashes to the ground. He later on explains how he met a girl and how they had loads of fun, but the next day left and robbed his stuff. He breaks into tears and advises Jabari that he should hold on and not let go of Meadow.He goes over to Carmen's house and confronts her about the picture. Jabari explains that he was with someone when she sent it but later on Carmen questions him if he is with someone or WITH someone. They have an argument and Carmen asks him if the person he's with is his girlfriend and thinks so. Disappointedly, Carmen tells him that he'll be blocked, and he leaves.At an art museum, Meadow meets Nadia (070 Shake) and tells her that she thought that she wasn't coming to display her art and assumes that Meadow was going to surprise the crowd.Jabari waits at her apartment door and when Meadow arrives, he tries to apologise to her, but she thinks that they should take a break. Left alone and dejected, he looks down as she gets into a cab and leaves.A few days later, Jabari presents Mr Rager in a conference meeting and gets called on by Lin and how he was looking out for him. He doesn't seem to bother and tries to tell Meadow about Mr Rager but doesn't.Jabari and his sister, Ellie (Maisha Mescudi), have a stroll in a park and have a talk about Meadow and how he should try again and not give up.It's the night of Meadow's art exhibition and Karina tells her that everyone's looking for their person and maybe Jabari is her person or not. She also tells her that if he doesn't come, it doesn't matter, and she should stay strong.During her speech, Jabari shows up and she talks about how she likes the ability to pause a moment forever and makes a joke about how she is hungry. Jabari disappears and Meadow goes after him. Jabari spray paints an ad sign saying "New York's second favourite burger. Meadow sees this and calls a cab to go to her secret spot again. Jabari bikes there, thinking about all the memories and good times they had had together.At the restaurant, they meet and reconcile and share a long passionate kiss.