On Friday in South Central Los Angeles, Craig (Ice Cube) has recently been fired from his job while attempting to collect his wages, as he was allegedly caught on camera stealing packages, although he claims innocence. Exacerbating his dilemma, his father, Mr. Jones (John Witherspoon), attempts to persuade Craig to join him in becoming a dog catcher, threatening to kick him out if he doesn't find a job. All the while, Craig has been eyeing pretty neighbor Debbie (Nia Long), but his insanely jealous girlfriend Joi (Paula Jai Parker) is a formidable obstacle. Meanwhile, Craig's best friend, Smokey (Chris Tucker), has also been smoking a brokered consignment of marijuana, which he was supposed to be selling for the psychopathic drug dealer Big Worm (Faizon Love).Throughout the day, friends and local neighborhood characters pass through, such as the harmless but always-scheming crackhead and petty thief Ezal (Anthony Johnson); the unkempt, perpetual crackhead/moocher Felisha (Angela Means), who is also Debbie's sister; lascivious Pastor Clever (Bernie Mac), who has a brief sex affair with sultry parishioner Mrs. Parker (Kathleen Bradley), before being unexpectedly interrupted by her infuriated, diminutive dwarf husband (Tony Cox); Shana (Terri J. Vaughn), a friend of Craig's sister Dana (Regina King); and Hector (Demetrius Navarro), a well-known stoner who rides around the neighborhood in a lowrider. There's also package-delivery driver Red (DJ Pooh), Craig's former coworker, whose stolen bicycle and black eye are courtesy of the hulking neighborhood bully Deebo (Tommy Lister, Jr.). The latter and Smokey break into the house of Stanley (Ronn Riser), Craig's next door neighbor, and both steal $200, which Deebo keeps for himself.As Big Worm is making his rounds, he stops through the neighborhood in an Ice Cream Truck to collect his money from Smokey. In an attempt to explain his obvious lack of revenue, Smokey inadvertently incriminates Craig, subjecting both to Big Worm's wrath. Big Worm has had enough of Smokey "playing with his emotions" and warns him to collect either the $200 dollars no later than 10:00 that evening, or he and Craig will be killed. Craig, although infuriated that Smokey incriminated him, reluctantly agrees to help his friend . Craig's first attempt is to borrow the money from his girlfriend, Joi, but after another run in with Felisha, he is unsuccessful.Craig has a serious moment with Smokey, because the latter doesn't understand the severity of Big Worm's threat. He goes into his house to receive the gun he bought, but his father eventually learns of the plan, and tells Craig that he should use his hands instead of guns to resolve his problems, all while telling his son the story of how Mr. Jones' brother lost his life due to gun violence. Craig ponders on this thought and eventually goes back outside, where Smokey makes a marijuana transaction with Hector (after Craig has to remind him of what's at stake). Suddenly, Deebo comes back around to hassle the duo and Red, who at this point gets his chain snatched. Later on, the two plan how they are going to get Big Worm's money. By then, Rita (Yvette Wilson), a girl Debbie had set Smokey up with earlier on the phone, arrives. Smokey approaches her car with confidence until he finds out that she lied about her image; instead of resembling Janet Jackson like she said, she is fat and practically bald. Meanwhile, Craig attempts to borrow money from Dana, who doesn't give him the money but informs their father of Big Worm's threat. He then attempts to borrow money from his mother, but she doesn't feel comfortable with loaning him anything since he just lost his job the previous day.Angered that Debbie tricked him, Smokey heads to her house and confronts her, before noticing Red's bike on the lawn, and inquiring on why Deebo is there, to which Debbie informs that he's asleep with Felisha. Smokey - upon seeing an opportunity - sneaks into Felisha's room and tries to retrieve the money that he and Deebo stole from Stanley's house earlier, but he's interrupted by Ezal, who unintentionally wakes Deebo up, leaving both men having to escape empty-handed. Smokey enlists Craig's help to go back and try again, but at that moment, Deebo rides Red's bike past them. Smokey decides to give up as nothing seems to be going their way, but right before they can go back to their houses, Lil Chris tries to scare and taunt them, trying to speed away on his bike - he is unsuccessful and Smokey whips him with a belt, getting revenge for all the times he's knocked their trashcans over.The two notice a black car driving up slowly and they hide, suspecting a possible drive-by shooting. Scared, they settle back into Craig's room for an hour, trying to get in touch with Big Worm. As paranoia kicks in, Smokey makes one last attempt to contact the dealer, but is interrupted by Mr. Jones, as he was informed by Dana about the situation at hand - after he shoos them (Smokey in particular) out, they decide to go back outside to prove they are not scared. Once outside, they notice a van parked in the middle of the street with its headlights off - Big Worm's men, who start shooting at them.Quickly, the duo flees the scene hides in the bed of a truck to remain safe. Craig's parents and their neighbors come out of their houses after hearing the gunshots, with Dana being particularly worried, asking the neighbors the whereabouts of her brother and Smokey. Debbie then confronts Deebo for assaulting Felisha, after Deebo falsely accuses Felisha of Smokey's attempted theft. Deebo eventually assaults Debbie, as Craig and Smokey arrive.Angered that Deebo has assaulted Debbie, Craig stands up to him, and threatens him with his gun. Deebo scoffs at the threat, and Mr. Jones encourages Craig to put the gun down and fight with his hands. Shortly after, Craig and Deebo fight. After nearly losing, Craig wins by using various objects as weapons (such as a brick and a trash can) and knocks Deebo off. As Debbie tends to Craig, Smokey steals back the money he was robbed of earlier and flees the scene. Red punches Deebo to make sure he doesn't wake up, and retrieves his stolen chain and bicycle, while Ezal steals Deebo's shoes. Craig and Debbie agree to meet up the following day and Craig breaks up with Joi on the phone. Craig has seemingly overcome all of the day's tribulations, save for finding employment.Later that night, Smokey settles with Big Worm, who explains that he had to warn Smokey too many times about his money and that it was all about the principle of handling business. Smokey rebuffs, telling Big Worm to sell the weed himself the next time, as he announces that he is giving up drug dealing and going to rehabilitation. After hanging up, Smokey looks up, lights a joint, and closes the movie by breaking the fourth wall and telling the audience, "I was just bullshittin'! And you know this, man!"