St Trinian's is an anarchical school for uncontrollable girls in London, England who try to save the school from bankruptcy by stealing the painting 'Girl With A Pearl Earring'. The film starts with Annabel Fritton (Talulah Riley) being admitted to the school. Annabel meets Kelly (Gemma Arterton), the head mean girl of St Trinians. Kelly walks Annabel around the school and introduces each of the different cliques in the school - Posh totty, Chavs, Emos, Geeks and First years. Annabel has a rough first night in the school where her towel and dressing gown are taken from the shower and she is broadcast on the Internet by the other girls while running naked from the shower to the dormitory. She phones her dad (Rupert Everette) and demands to be taken away from the school.Flash Harry pays a visit to the school and makes a deal with the girls for some lab made vodka.A few days later, the school has a hockey match against Annabel's old school - their rivals Cheltenham Ladies College. Their captain is Verity Thwaites (Lucy Punch), the daughter of Geoffrey Thwaites (Colin Firth), the education minister. The girls give a hostile and violent welcome to their visitors and the match ends in a brawl between the two schools.Later in the film, Annabel overhears her father talking with Mrs. Fritton about how he thinks Annabel doesn't fit in with the family and hurts her feelings. Later that day Mrs. Fritton talks to Annabel and makes her a part of the family and gets her to release her anger. The other girls at the school give Annabel a make-over and makes her part of the school. Meanwhile, Geoffrey Thwaites is inspecting the school and the bank is threatening the school with closure.Kelly hears the talk about closure and tells the rest of the school, they then make a plan to save the school which involves getting to the final of "School Challenge" and stealing the painting 'the girl with a pearl earring'. Meanwhile, Annabel is talking to Flash Harry about acting as a gay German art dealer. He initially refuses but Kelly gets him to do the job (as he secretly has feelings for her and does not want to look stupid in front of her). The school team for school challenge is made up of the three of the Posh Tottys, Chelsea, Peaches and Chloe. They get to the final by cheating.During the final Kelly, Taylor and Andrea foil the security for the painting that they're after and eventually retrieve it but on the way back the cable that they used to climb over the top of the audience of the final of school challenge snaps just after Taylor (Kathryn Drysdale) and Andrea (Paloma Faith) get over to the other side. Kelly gets stuck with no other way to get to other side again. Mrs. Fritton sees that Kelly needs help and goes to help, having to knock out Geoffrey Thwaites on the way. Meanwhile, Annabel takes care of Verity Thwaites.The school successfully gets the painting and sells it to Carnaby Fritton who doesn't realise it is not the real one which has been returned under the cover of St Trinians finding it. They get a £50,000 reward for returning the painting and the cash from Carnaby Fritton they pay back the money owed to the bank and St Trinian's doesn't get closed.