The doll from the previous movie is cleaned, repaired and put back together. The manufacturers want to prove there was nothing wrong with the doll. There were rumors that someone tampered with the doll's voice cassette, something like "Hi, I'm Chucky. I'm the Lakeshore Strangler and I'm going to kill you." Andy is in a foster care home. His mother is in a psychiatric ward. While working on the doll, a supernatural force surges through the machine and electrocutes the technician. Mr Sullivan does not like how this looks. He wants Mattson to smuggle this error out of here in twenty-four hours. He comes up with a fine way to deal with the doll: "Stick it up your ass."Andy's foster parents Phil and Joanne bring Andy to their home. Phil lays down a rule: "First rule, don't touch the old stuff." Andy meets his foster sister Kyle. Andy opens a closet door. A Good Guy Doll falls down and scares Andy. Phil lays down another rule: "Andy, rule number two, no running in the house."Mattson stops at a liquor store. While he's gone, Chucky uses the car telephone to call the foster care home and get the whereabouts of Andy, "This is his Uncle Charles".Mattson returns. The car alarm is on, but there's nobody inside the car. While inside the car, Chucky holds Mattson at gunpoint. He orders Mattson to drive and park the car. He has Mattson put his hands behind the back of the seat. He ties the hands together with a skipping rope. He says: "Bang, you're dead." Water squirts out of the gun. They laugh. Chucky sticks a bag over the man's head and suffocates him to death. In the house, Chucky meets his look-alike, "Hi, I'm Tommy.""Shut up you idiot" says Chucky. He smashes the Tommy doll's face with the ornament. He buries the doll in the backyard. Phil is upset over the broken ornament. Andy and Kyle both deny that they did it. Phil says until one person confesses, they're both grounded. In the evening, Chucky has Andy tied to the bed and gagged. He has come up with a game called "Hide the Soul", which means doing the same chant as he did in the first movie. Kyle appears at the window. Chucky has to find another time when Andy is alone. Phil throws Chucky in the basement so it can't bother Andy. Chucky gets a nosebleed. He's turning human again. He must get to work on Andy's body fast.Andy goes to school. Chucky catches a ride underneath the school bus. He finds Andy's homework assignment and vandalizes it, giving Miss Kettlewell a personal message. The teacher puts Andy in detention. She throws Chucky in the closet and locks it. She also locks Andy in the room. Andy looks through the closet keyhole. Chucky's eye appears. Andy climbs out the window. Miss Kettlewell thinks the noise coming from the closet is Andy. She opens it to give him a good scolding. She can't find Andy anywhere. Chucky stabs Miss Kettlewell with an air pump and injects her full of air. She stumbles out of the closet, knocking some desks over. Chucky appears from the closet holding a big stick, "You've been very naughty Miss Kettlewell." The camera zooms out from the window with each swing of the stick.Back in the house, Kyle tells Andy that she has lived with dozens of families. They always seem to send her away when she starts to get comfortable. Every time it has happened, it has made her stronger. The only person she can rely on is herself. Andy says: "It doesn't matter. Wherever I go, Chucky will find me." Andy takes an electric meat knife and walks into the basement. Chucky drops down on Andy. There is a struggle as Andy crawls along the floor with Chucky on his back. Andy reaches the knife and hits Chucky in the head with it. Chucky runs off. Phil appears. He is being extra cautious seeing Andy holding the electric knife. Chucky trips Phil on the stairs, causing him to fall through the banister. "How's it hanging Phil?" says Chucky, before he lets go of the rope. Phil falls, breaks his neck and dies.Because of Phil's death, Joanne decides to return Andy to the foster care home. Kyle puts Chucky in the bin. She swings on a swing, smoking a cigarette. She kicks up some earth, enough to reveal a buried item. She pulls up the Tommy doll. She finds the bin empty. She finds Joanne at a sewing machine, her mouth gagged, and her throat slit. Chucky takes Kyle captive and forces her to drive to the foster care home. They must have been speeding as they are pulled over by the police. The policeman seems drawn to the doll. He asks: "What's your name, buddy?""Chucky" replies the doll. Blood coming out of its nose seems to freak out the policeman enough to let them go. Kyle accelerates and brakes suddenly, sending Chucky crashing through the windscreen. Kyle crashes the car against a post to throw Chucky off the bonnet. Kyle tries to crush Chucky against a fence, but Chucky gets out the way. Chucky takes Kyle captive again, "Playtime's over."The fire alarm is on in the foster care home. Kyle says that Chucky pulled the fire alarm. Grace brings them into her office. She grabs hold of the doll. Chucky comes to life, "Amazing isn't it." He stabs Grace in the chest. She falls onto a photocopy machine and her death face is printed. Chucky closes the door between Andy and Kyle. He has Andy get in the back of a Chicago Sun-Times van. Kyle drives the car in front of the van to stop the van. Andy is running with Chucky on his back into the Good Guy Doll factory, and Kyle in pursuit, leaving an angry driver behind. Andy runs through a maze of Good Guy Doll packages. Chucky knocks Andy out with a blow to the back of the head. Chucky actually manages to complete the chant. However, his nose continues bleeding. It is too late. He's been inside this doll's body for too long. Now he's stuck with it. Kyle knocks a stack of boxes onto Chucky.Kyle and Andy climb up a roller slide. Chucky appears and climbs up after Andy. Kyle pulls Andy to the top of the slide and closes a yellow gate down on Chucky's hand. Chucky rips his hand off trying to get it free. He uses a knife blade as a replacement for his hand. Kyle and Andy get through a machine inserting the dolls' eyes to get to an exit door. With dolls clogging up the production line, a technician takes notice. The technician clears the production line and gets into a dangerous position to fix the machine. Chucky slashes the technician's cheek with his knife hand. The technician falls backwards on the conveyor belt. A pair of doll's eyes are inserted in place of his own eyes.Chucky suddenly appears on a conveyor belt platform. Kyle grabs a box of pieces and knocks Chucky into a sitting position. A doll hair sewing machine sews Chucky down on the platform. Andy pushes the button, so the conveyor belt runs backwards. Chucky is sent inside a machine inserting the dolls' limbs. A messed-up pile of limbs comes out of the machine. A swinging technician corpse knocks Kyle onto the conveyor belt. Chucky has escaped the machine. He rides on a trolley as a replacement for his legs. Chucky's knife hand gets caught in a grate. Andy turns a valve. Molten plastic sprays over Chucky. Andy saves Kyle from entering the machine. Chucky comes back alive to attack them some more. Kyle sticks an air hose inside Chucky's mouth. His head grows so big and blows up. Chucky is dead for the second time. Andy and Kyle walk out the factory and the credits start to roll.