Emmaline "Emma" Robinson and Dean McMullen attend the same high school. They couldn't be more different. Emma is beautiful and popular, while Dean is a loner and often sarcastic. A school trip to Trinidad is organized so that the students can help the local community. The class arrives at the island and head out to a carnival party on a boat. At one point, the boat is stopped by the police in a surprise raid. Emma is accidentally knocked overboard. Dean jumps into the water and rescues her. However, bad weather means they need to take shelter under a tarp. The next morning, they find themselves adrift in the middle of the sea. They spot an island and are able to swim to safety. But this is just the beginning of their adventure.They start wondering around in a hope to find a hotel/resort leaving the boat drifting at shore. Walking all day through the forest on the island, they reach complete another end without finding any help. Upset with this, they come back to find that their boat has gone and only one flare gun is left with two bullets. They built a shelter on the shore again wishing that someone would come finding them.On another side, both Dean and Emma's parents with the help of the police are trying to find them but they couldn't locate them even searching again and again through helicopter. Finally, after a month, their parents and all of their friends leave the hope of Emma and Dean coming back alive thinking they are dead already. The days passes by on the island with Emma and Dean eating fruits from the forest and staying together under a shelter. Through this, Emma and Dean befriends with each other, and Dean tells her that he stays quiet at the school because he thinks that nobody neither acknowledge him nor notices him. He and his father stay alone at home since his mother died some years back. Emma discovers the other side of Dean which is fun and adventurous.After nearly a month, they hear the sound of a tourist helicopter passing by the island. Excited with this, they run towards the shore and do everything possible to grab the attention. They could not locate their flare gun (which is stolen by a Capuchin on a tree) and due to this, they miss the chance. Emma gets angry and frustrated thinking that they would never be able to reach home. Dean tries to sooth her which ends as they both give into their growing feelings by having sex. The morning after their sexual encounter, Emma finds Dean digging a grave for a human skeleton they found. When questioned, he eventually admits he was hoping for closure over his mother's death, suffering remorse for accidentally causing her deadly accident.Their parents thinking they are dead and Emma and Dean having fun on the island - the schedule goes such a way for almost 100 days. After which finally one day, another helicopter passes by and this time using the flare gun (which the Capuchin returned), they grab the attention and are returned home. But in the middle of all attention given to Emma (because of her popularity), Dean is left alone. He tries to speak to her, but she couldn't because of the crowd (although it looks like Emma herself does not want to talk to him). Readjusting to everyday life, their relationship becomes strained and distant.There comes the prom night, where everyone but Emma has a date. Dean's father asks him if he wants to go to the prom night in his father's tuxedo. Dean decides to go to Emma. Emma finds him standing outside in the rain and goes to him. They clear their differences as they kiss passionately and dance together. The movie ends when Emma says to Dean: "We are pouring!" and Dean replies: "We've been through worse."