Ray Peterson (Tom Hanks) awakens one night to investigate a strange light coming from his new neighbor's basement, but is pushed back by a strong wind. He notices someone watching him from an upstairs window and retreats into his house.The next morning, Ray observes the goings-ons of the cul-de-sac's various neighbors. While teenager Ricky Butler (Corey Feldman) prepares to paint his family's house, the main interest for Ray is when elderly neighbor Walter Selznick (Gale Gordon) lets his dog Queenie defecate on Mark Rumsfield's (Bruce Dern) lawn, onto which the veteran accidentally steps in, leading him to rush over to lecture the old man, with his wife Bonnie (Wendy Schaal) close behind.Returning to the kitchen, Ray's wife Carol (Carrie Fisher) bemoans Ray's decision to spend his vacation at home instead of going to their lake house for a fishing trip. The mood is broken when the sound of gunfire is heard, and Ray finds his next-door-neighbor Art Weingartner (Rick Duncommun) attempting to kill crows in his backyard.After Walter invites himself into Ray's home for breakfast, the conversation turns to the neighbors next door to Ray. Some time before an elderly couple going by the name of The Knapps lived there, but Art claims the new neighbors are the Klopeks. Art reveals that the realtor who sold them the house, mentioned that their last house burned down. Ray's son Dave (Cory Danziger) mentions he saw three people in the backyard recently, digging at night.Hoping to change the subject, Ray changes clothing, and takes Art out to the garage. The mood is broken, when Art notices one of the Klopeks out on the house's porch. The strange-looking neighbor quickly beats a hasty retreat, and Art then dares Ray to knock on the door and introduce himself. Ray manages to get Art to come along, but the door knocker causes the Klopek's house number display to fall, knocing over a porch light, and unleashing a swarm of bees, that chase Art and Ray out into the street!That evening while walking his dog, Ray meets up with Art and Ricky Butler. When they hear noise coming from the Klopeks, Art recalls an event in their town of Hinkley Hills where a soda jerk named Skip went crazy one summer and murdered his whole family with an ice pick.Later on that evening, Ray is called outside by Art and Mark Rumsfield, to spy on the Klopeks' house. As they do, a strange sound eminates from the dwelling before lights flash in the basement, followed by a foul odor. A few moments later, the house's garage door opens, and the three men witness the man they saw earlier that morning on the porch, place a number of trash bags in the garbage cans, before driving back into the garage.While Art wishes to find out what is in the cans, a rain storm sends all three men back to their homes, with Rumsfield claiming they will find out "at first light." That evening, Ray observes (as his son did recently), three figure in the Klopek's backyard, digging in the heavy rain.The next day, Art and Rumsfield accost two garbage men (Dick Miller and Robert Picardo) before they can take the Klopek's trash. However, the bags contain nothing. When Ray joins the discussion, he mentions seeing three people digging in the rain, leading Art to assume that the neighbor they saw last night noticed them, took what he had put in the trash, and buried it in the backyard. The reasoning finally cases the garbagemen to leave, just as Rumsfield's wife discovers Walter's dog Queenie, who looks like she has been stuck outside all evening.The group then go to Walter's house, and are able to get in after Rusmfield cuts a hole in one of the windows. Inside they find a chair turned over and television set on, as well as Walter's toupee in the kitchen, leading Rumsfield to suspect foul play is afoot. Eventually, Ray decides he has had enough and pushes everyone out of the house. Once he does so, Ray leaves Walter a note saying "I have your dog," before stuffing the toupee back through Walter's mail slot.Later on that evening, Art and Ray retreat to Ray's basement, where Art shows Ray a book on the occult, affirming his belief that the Klopeks used Walter as a human sacrifice. Ray tries to ignore this, but has a nightmare in which the Klopeks sacrifice him upon a giant barbeque grill.The next day, Art and Mark Rumsfield run to the Klopek house and slip a note under the front door. Art then tells Ray about him and Rumsfield's act with the note reading, "I know what you've done." Ray frets and panics that the Klopecks will think he did it because one of the Klopecks saw him the previous day slip a note under Walter's front door. While Ray and Art are arguing, Ray's dog, Vince, arrives carrying a human femur bone. They realize Vince dug it up in the Klopecks' yard. Just then, Art's note is tossed into Ray's yard, causing him to panic. He runs into the screen door just as Carol storms outAfter, Ray tells what Art and Mark did, Carol then frets, claiming she has had enough of the men's childish behavior and demands they simply introduce themselves. Art, being the immature of the group, is not invited. Carol, Ray, Mark and Bonnie walk over the Klopeck house where Hans Klopeck answers the door, and reluctantly lets them inside to meet his Uncle Rubin. They sit in awkward silence while Hans makes coffee. While Carol, Bonnie and Mark look on, Ray is extremely nervous, thinking that the Klopecks might do something to him now that he is in their home.Ray complains about the neighborhood drainage problems and suggests they check the Klopecks' cellar for moisture. Before Ruben can answer, Dr. Werner Klopek (Henry Gibson) emerges from the basement wearing a rubber apron, wiping what looks like blood off his hands, but explains it is only red paint. Over tea, Werner plays the perfect host, explaining that he is a practicing pathologist currently on sabbatical from a local university, and that his older brother Ruben and their nephew Hans travel from state to state when Werner's job takes him to other colleges to teach. Werner claims that his teaching at the local university requires him to move frequently, and that he is already planning to look for a new house the next day. When Mark suddenly asks the Klopeks what secrets they have hiding in the basement, the panicked Ray spills hot coffee on his lap and rushes off to find a bathroom. Instead, he opens the basement door and releases a Great Dane. The dog smashes through a screen door, spots Art, who has sneaked into the backyard, and chases him over the fence, which sets off an alarm. This brings the visit to a quick end and Carol, Bonnie, Mark and Ray leave.Later, the neighbors regroup at Ray's house where Carol and Bonnie think that the Klopeks appear odd, Mark and Art think that they are psychos. When all of them ask Ray (who is now strangely calm since arriving back from the Klopek house) of his opinion, Ray says that the Klopecks seem "alright." However, once the women leave Ray calls Art and Mark into the study to privately talk with them. There, Ray pulls Walter's toupee from his shorts. He states he left it at Walter's house yesterday, but found it at the Klopecks' in a pile of magazines addressed to Walter. Ray now vows to search the Klopek house to find Walter's dead body.The next morning, Carol takes Dave to visit her sister, while Ray stays behind, claiming that he and Art are going to play golf all day. Carol is clearly suspicious to Ray's sudden change in behavior, but she leaves anyway. The minute that Carol leaves, Ray, Art and Mark spring into action. When the Klopecks leave their house, Art dresses up as a maintenance man and scales a utility pole to cut the power lines, disabling any alarms. He clips a wire, and the electrical charge hurls him into an old tool shed, causing a blackout throughout the neighborhood. Hearing the disturbance, Ricky Butler sees Mark Rumsfield, now dressed in military fatigues, climbing onto Ray's roof to maintain a lookout. Ricky calls his friends to come over and watch the fun.After hours of digging up the backyard, Art suggests they search the house. Ray breaks a window and they descend to the basement, where they find a commercial blast furnace. When Ray turns it on, the noise startles Rumsfield, who falls off the roof and discharges his rifle, shooting out a car window. Convinced that bodies are buried under the cellar's dirt floor, Ray begins to dig.That night, the Klopecks return to see the glow of the furnace coming from their cellar. They turn off their headlights and drive away. When Ray hits something metallic, Art radios Rumsfield claiming that they have found Walter and runs out of the house. Just then, Walter arrives home and the Klopecks return with the police. Rumsfield attempts to alert Ray, but Ray is still frantically digging and doesn't hear his warning. Out on the street, Ricky and Art see the Klopecks returning with the police. Art tells Ricky to stall them while he gets Ray out of the Klopek house. Ricky is forced to literally jump on the hood of the policeman's car.Art races to the cellar to warn Ray to leave just as Ray declares he has hit a gas line and the whole basement is flooding with methane gas. Art barely escapes the house before the furnace flames ignite the gas. He despairs that Ray is dead, but his friend limps out of the burning ruin with half his hair singed off.Later, Carol returns to find Ray bandaged and under arrest. Nearby, Art talks with a police detective (Franklyn Ajay) who tells him that Walter suffered a heart attack the night he vanished in which he managed to call his daughter and son-in-law who took him to the hospital for treatment. The reason why Walter's toupee was found in the Klopeck's house is that Werner Klopeck is a famous pathologist who was collecting mail for Walter while the old man was in the hospital. Ray realizes Werner must have picked up the toupee while collecting the mail, and concludes their paranoid suspicions were unwarranted. When Art mentions that someday police will find a body buried in the backyard, Ray loses his temper and tries to strangle him. He hurls a gurney into an ambulance, jumps inside, and demands to be taken to the hospital.While in the ambulance, Werner climbs in with him, and Ray apologizes. To his surprise, however, Werner accuses Ray of finding skulls hidden in the furnace, and explains that he murdered the previous tenants before moving in. Ray looks up to see that Hans behind the wheel. Before he can scream, Werner pulls out a syringe and Hans drives away. Ray pushes Werner into Hans, who loses control of the vehicle and smashes into Art's house through the front door. The back doors spring open and the crowd sees Ray and Werner fighting as the gurney rolls down the road and into the Klopecks' car, causing the trunk to pop open. Declaring a "citizen's arrest," Ray knocks the syringe from Werner's hand. Ricky Butler discovers several skulls and bones in the car trunk, and police arrest Klopecks.Ray puts his arm around Carol and tells her he wants to go to the lake to spend his last few vacation days with her. As Art musses about the media attention the neighborhood will receive, Mark and Bonnie Rumsfield yell to him that his house is on fire from the ambulance stuck in the front door, and that Art's wife has just returned from her vacation to visit her parents. Art is horrified and distraught.... because his wife is home.As the fire trucks return to put out the fire at Art's house, Ray returns to his house with Carol. Ray passes by Ricky and instructs him to keep an eye on the neighborhood. In the final shot, Ricky breaks the fourth wall by saying to the viewers, "God, I love this street!".