We are introduced to an outdoor celebration to crown Miss Mermaid of 1953 in the small Italian town Rimini. The winner is the lovely Sandra Rubini (Leonora Ruffo) whose brother Moraldo (Franco Interlenghi) and mother stand by admiring her popularity. As a rain storm surprises the crowd and pushes them indoors we are slowly introduced to the men in the film that we will follow. Fausto (Franco Fabrizi) runs home in the rain and begins packing his bags when he discovers that his girlfriend Sandra, Miss Mermaid, is pregnant when she collapses at the party. Fausto is walking out the door only to be confronted by good friend Moraldo, who reasons that his sister needs a husband. With his father adding to the argument, Fausto decides to marry Sandra albeit apprehensively. One of the other young men Leopoldo (Leopoldo Trieste) goes home to write on one of his hackneyed plays but ends up spending more time looking at cracks in the ceiling and flirting with the maid in the next apartment while talking of one day staging his creative works. Then there is Alberto (Alberto Sordi) the animated goof of the group who still lives at home with his mother and attractive sister Olga (Claude Farell) who is clandestinely dating a married man who Alberto disapproves of. The five friends spend their days and nights attempting to create a good time for themselves and transcend their hum drum small-town existence. As we follow the friends we see them involved in different rites of passage as when Fausto is compelled to try to make time with every beautiful woman he meets and how this affects his marriage. We see Leopoldo meet up with an older renowned actor Sergio Natali (Achille Majeroni) who spends time asking the young writer to read his material for him only to discover that the incipient relationship is fraught with personal compromises. Alberto is heart broken and left behind to console his mother when his sister runs off the married man she has been seeing. As the high profiles of the five friends come into view and we see them go through many different escapades we see the effect that time and understanding has on each of them. Moraldo, the most thoughtful of the group spends time alone walking the streets thinking, where he befriends a young working boy who offers one of the most poignant farewells in film.