This is not one movie but a series of short films. They are not separate, but some of the films have two or more parts, and not all of each film is seen in its entirety at once. These are not in order.In the first story, in a scene where everything is orange, Ben follows a beautiful girl played by Rachel Bilson to a bar and tries to pick her up. She is sweet and nice to him, but then Garry walks in. He is married but she is his mistress. He is also a skilled pickpocket. Later, the girl shows up in the blonde wig from her photo. The girl and the man have a pleasant encounter.A Hasidic Jewish woman is about to get married and she conducts a business transaction with a Jain man. They each talk about their culture and negotiate over the price of whatever is being sold. After that, the wedding has no dialogue or even audio other than music, with lots of men with beards and hats. The bride and groom seem to be enjoying themselves. The Jain man is shown driving somewhere.There is a story where a white girl born in Mali gets in a Haitian driver's cab. They have a nice conversation. Then they are joined by another man.A composer of music for anime meets a girl online. She is sweet but he has never seen her. Finally they meet, and she has the distinctive face of Christina Ricci. Another scene in a restaurant is orange.A young woman on the subway is narrating her story, but the viewer only hears her talking. There is a man she will meet later.A retired opera singer moves into a nice hotel. The young foreign-born bellhop is disabled but determined to his job. They have several nice conversations before a mysterious white light appears outside the window. Another older hotel employee seems to say everything the younger man said.An artist who wasn't born in the United States but looks like Jay Leno if he didn't bother to shave wants to paint a beautiful Chinese woman, but she is hesitant. The woman's boss is very strict and doesn't seem to care about her. There is some Chinese music and a surprise at the end.Also in Chinatown, a white woman brings in her sexiest clothes to be dry-cleaned. The dry-cleaner seems uncomfortable with the situation, but at least they are speaking Cantonese and the older man can't understand them. He is shown later in a nice scene with a middle-aged but attractive woman smoking outside a restaurant. This one has a surprise ending.In a park, two white women see a Hispanic man with a white girl at a fountain. They compliment him on what a good job he does as a "manny". Then the man returns the girl to her mother, where we find out things are not as they seem.A high school student is set up with a date to prom with by a pharmacist. The prom date includes an unpleasant surprise for the boy when he meets the girl, an awkward encounter with the girl he was going out with, and an unexpected ending to the story.Cloris Leachman and Eli Wallach play a bickering couple walking through the city to the beach on their 63rd anniversary.