James Isaac "Jim" Neutron is a young 10-year-old sixth grade schoolboy inventor who has super boy-genius intelligent powers, he has a pet homemade cyber-dog, lives in the Texas town of Retroville and loves making homemade inventions, robots, gadgets, science tech and rube-Goldberg machines and wishes he never had parents. Jimmy's best friends are overweight clumsy Carlton Ulysses "Carl" Wheezer and Mexican superhero-obsessed Ramon Guevera "Sheen" Estevez. Jimmy also has a rivalry with his intelligent classmate Cyndthia Aura "Cindy" Vortex, who teases, insults, hates and picks on him for his short stature. The film starts off with a rocket carrying two boys and a robotic dog: Jimmy Neutron, Carl Wheezer and Goddard The Dog. Jimmy is attempting to launch a homemade communications satellite made out of a kitchen toaster, hoping to communicate with an alien species he believes exists somewhere out in the universe after getting a message from space. despite his parents, Mr Hugh Beaumont Neutron and Mrs Judith "Judy" Neutron's protest in talking to strangers and playing with rockets. Unknown to anyone, the satellite is picked up and intercepted near the Planet Yolkus, home to an alien race of dark evil alien egg-like slime monsters from outer space called the Yolkian Eggpire. the Yolkian king leader, King Goobot V, and his Yolkian younger brother, assistant helper, trusty sidekick and butler minion, Ooblar, watch a pre-recorded message from Jimmy, featuring him introducing himself and explaining about life on Earth.Jimmy, Carl, and their friend Sheen spot a poster for a the opening night party of a futuristic sci-fi-styled amusement park funfair called "Retroland Theme Park." However, Jimmy's parents refuse to let him go that night because it is a school night, and as a result, Jimmy is grounded and forced to go his room to think about what he has done wrong after accidentally causing a fire on a curtain with one of his his homemade jet-pack inventions. Jimmy, Carl and Sheen subsequently choose to sneak out and visit the park advised by Nicholas "Nick" Dean, a cool and charmingly handsome popular kid. they all have a their time of their lives and a huge night of fun.As the three are at the park, the Yolkian Eggpire set a course for Planet Earth, where all arrive, they kidnap and abduct all the adults in the city, leaving fake notes on the refrigerators to tell the kids that they have gone to Florida for an "extended vacation". Coincidentally, Carl spots a shooting star (actually a Yolkian ship that they mistaken for a star), so he, Jimmy and Sheen wish for no more parents so they can have fun all the time. The next morning, the kids discover that the parents have all disappeared. they all have a day of running around doing wrong things and have a huge party celebration. but the next day they feel sick, sad and lonely, and realise they need their parents and that things aren't so great without them. After hearing a message from his parents that Goddard had recorded while posing as Jimmy last night, Jimmy becomes suspicious of the fact that his parents said that they would see him in the morning despite not being there. He soon discovers what has really happened.Jimmy organizes the other children in town to build homemade spaceship rockets from the Retroland rides that they tear apart to travel to Yolkus and get their families back. after narrowly surviving a giant meteorite shower and camping on an asteroid, eventually they reach Yolkus and are captured by Goobot, who tells them that the parents are possessed and hypnotised by hypno-mind-control devices on their heads and are to be sacrificed to their Yolkian Goddess of Wrath and the biggest and most deadly creature in the galaxy, Lord Poultra. He shows the kids Jimmy's video, thanking him for helping him find suitable species for their ritual, before having the children locked up in their prison dungeon cells.With Jimmy feeling guilty over the fact that his actions led to the Yolkans abducting the parents in the first place, his rival/love interest Cindy Vortex convinces him to stand up and think of an escape plan by confessing that they really need him. Jimmy manages to contact Goddard using a cellphone belonging to Cindy's best friend Libby Folfax. After breaking out with the help of Goddard, the children find their parents in a huge Colosseum where a giant egg is hatched, releasing Poultra, revealed to be a giant alien chicken monster. Jimmy and the kids (with the exception of Nick, as he turns out not so brave), in accordance with Jimmy's plan, manage to stop the parents from being sacrificed to Poultra and foil the Yolkians' plan by battling the Yolkian guard army and stealing the hypno-remote control.Everyone escapes aboard a Yolkian escape vessel that Sheen steals from the Yolkians and knocks Poultra out cold, but Goobot follows them in his ship at the head of the giant Yolkian fleet army. With the exception of Goobot's ship, all of the Yolkian ships are destroyed when Jimmy baits them into flying too close to Yolkus' sun. Jimmy and Goddard then use an experimental homemade shrink ray gun to grow to the size of a giant planet, and blow Goobot's ship into an asteroid: Goobot and Ooblar survive the explosion, but Goobot declares that they have not seen the last of him and vows revenge. Jimmy reconciles with his parents for not understanding strangers, as all the other kids reunite with theirs, and they make it on their way back home. and Jimmy admits that despite his intelligence, he still depends on them. Cindy and Jimmy decide that Cindy should continue to insult him, Jimmy decides never to say to anyone that Cindy was nice to him and Cindy decides not to call him "short". the Neutrons get home in time for dinner.In a final scene of the film, Jimmy and Carl have breakfast at a sleepover, during which Jimmy's parents drink one of his homemade burp soda formula experiments (that causes significant belching), thinking it is real soda and they all laugh out loud and keep burping 'til the credits roll. In the post credits scene, Miss Winfred Fowl, the schoolteacher, is shown taming a worm when having been shrunk by Jimmy's shrink ray prior to the film and the film ends.