In a nice apartment in New York City, Susanna puts Maisie to bed. Maisie wants her mother to sing to her. Susanna explains that the music she sings isn't appropriate for bedtime. Maisie still wants a lullaby, so Susanna sings one.Margo the nanny is watching Maisie as her parents argue. Beale, who is British, comes in the room to spend time with his daughter.A locksmith shows up and late at night Beale bangs on the door. Susanna will not let him in.Maisie later spends time in another nice apartment where Byron is the really nice doorman. Margo is there but Beale comes to visit, saying this will be their secret. Once Byron warns him Susanna is coming, he sneaks out.On another occasion, Beale come to Maisie's school to pick her up and he is told he really should know the schedule so he won't interrupt class. Susanna arrives before he can take her, accuses him of planning to take her to Argentina, and leaves with Maisie.Eventually, Maisie and Susanna go to a nice old government building where Maisie is interviewed. Afterward, Susanna is upset that she didn't get full custody.Maisie's friend Zoe comes for a sleepover. While they have fun, they later leave the bedroom to find Susanna and a group of friends having a good time--maybe too good a time-- and watching Susanna perform very loud music on the TV screen. Zoe is uncomfortable. Later Zoe is crying and her father has to come to take her home. By this time the apartment is quiet.Maisie spends time with her father, and Margo is there. Beale explains that he is lonely and Margo does things for him. they will get married and Maisie can be the flower girl. A brief scene suggesting a wedding is shown, but not the wedding itself. Beale plans to spend time in Italy, but it won't be all work.Maisie gets a new nanny, and old woman, but Maisie does not like her. Susanna tells Maisie she is not supposed to criticize people who are different.One day no one has arranged to pick up Maisie at school and Lincoln shows up. He claims he is married to Susanna, but no one told Maisie this. Margo, who was supposed to be on a honeymoon but got a message at the airport, is there by this time and she is reluctant, but she lets Lincoln take Maisie. Lincoln is very nice and works as a bartender, and he explains that since he works nights, he can take care of Maisie during the day.Maisie and Lincoln spend time together while Susanna is in the recording studio. Susanna sees them together outside the room where she is recording and doesn't feel comfortable so she invites Maisie into the studio.Beale, who travels a lot, does not pick Maisie up when he is supposed to, but Susanna learns he does not have any obligations, while she does. Susanna has to go on tour so arrangements are made for Maisie.Maisie has a sore throat and a fever while she stays with Margo, and Margo doesn't know what to do, so she calls Lincoln.Later, Maisie is better and she and Lincoln have a fun day together. But Lincoln gets a call that he has to go to work because someone else can't be there. He can't take Maisie to a place like that, so he takes her to Margo, who is locked out of her apartment because Beale didn't put her name on the lease. Beale is gone gain, of course, but after tearfully telling Lincoln that Maisie is his problem, Margo changes her mind and takes Maisie.Later it is clear Margo and Beale will not stay together. They were arguing one of the times Maisie stayed with them.Beale returns and has a meal with Maisie, where he tells her he is moving to England, not only because of his work, but because his mother isn't getting any younger. Maisie wants her mother to come, but Beale tells her that won't happen and he promises to visit her whenever he can come to the states.Margo brings Maisie to the restaurant where Lincoln works, and Lincoln is able to get them a table.Lincoln and Margo have a fun day with Maisie while Susanna is on tour, and then they run into Susanna, who is mad at both of them. But she was the one who claimed she couldn't take care of Maisie. Lincoln and Susanna were having problems already, and Lincoln decides he is done.Maisie spends time with Susanna, who leaves her where Lincoln works when she has to leave. Lincoln is not there but the very nice hostess makes arrangements.Margo takes Maisie to a beach house that belongs to her cousin. Lincoln eventually shows up there, and they have fun together playing Monopoly. Then Susanna shows up in her tour bus and tries to take Maisie. Maisie won't go, and Susanna reacts at first like her child has rejected her and she is just going to leave out of spite. But then she shows Maisie how much she loves her and tries to act reasonable, trusting that Maisie is comfortable with her new situation, and agrees to leave.