In the dystopian year 2000, the United States has been destroyed by a financial crisis and a military coup. The resulting fascist police state, the United Provinces of America, is headed by the cult figure "Mr. President". The people are kept satisfied through a stream of gory gladiatorial entertainment, which includes the bloody spectacle of the Annual Transcontinental Road Race, depicted as a symbol of American values and the American way of life. The coast-to-coast three-day race is run on public roads, and points are scored not just for speed, but for the number of innocent pedestrians struck and killed. Frankenstein is the most celebrated racer and is the government's champion. He is reputed to be part machine, rebuilt after many crashes. He regularly battles with the other teams, particularly "Machine Gun" Joe Viterbo, who hates being second. A resistance group led by Thomasina Paine, a lineal descendant of Thomas Paine, one of the original American revolutionaries of the 1770s, is attempting to assassinate Frankenstein and replace him with one of their agents. The "Resistance" is assisted by Paine's great-granddaughter Annie, Frankenstein's navigator, who is intending to lure him into a planned ambush where he is to be replaced by a double. Disruption of the race by the Resistance is blamed on the French by the state, who are also blamed for ruining the country's economy and telephone system.It emerges that Frankenstein is not a willing government stooge, nor is there only one Frankenstein. The current Frankenstein is simply one of many people specially trained to race in the role. "When one is used up, they bring in another," he tells Annie. The current Frankenstein also has his own plan to end the tyranny: win the race and shake hands with Mr. President, detonating a grenade which has been implanted in his prosthetic right hand (a "hand grenade", as he calls it). Frankenstein successfully outmaneuvers both the rival drivers and the Resistance, and is declared the winner and sole survivor, although he is wounded and unable to carry out his original hand grenade attack plan, as Annie used the grenade to kill Machine Gun Joe Viterbo when he attacks them near the end of the race. Annie dons Frankenstein's disguise and plans to stab Mr. President on the victory podium. Greeting Mr. President as he congratulates Frankenstein, Annie is mistakenly shot and wounded by her grandmother. Frankenstein finally succeeds in killing Mr. President by ramming the podium with his car. In an epilogue, Annie and Frankenstein are wed, and Frankenstein, now President, abolishes the race and the perverse laws of the Provinces, though he does make a point of running over objecting reporter Junior Bruce.