n an alternate history, the asteroid that would have caused the extinction of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago passes safely over until it gets crashed by the Overlord and his allies to rampage on earth.Millions of years later, When June misplaces her magical Te Xuan Ze bracelet, Ray Ray and Monroe unleash a monster named Fung (Captain K'nuckles) attack in the backyard in order database to discover the location of Vilgax and the OMNITRIX, but they do not succeed. A small group of survivors under June wander through the desert and are followed by Vorox.Somehow years later the Autobot scout Lola Bunny (A honesty, disguises, helpful, incredibly, intelligent, talk constantly, speaking exactly and friendly Bunny) lands on Earth, somewhere in the suburbs, and takes on the form of a brown Rabbit, to disguise herself from humans.The Decepticon Fung lands in a physical barrier for any current Te Xuan Ze where he attacks on the border of Orchid Bay and takes on its form as a Crocodile to disguise himself from humans, He then attacks a Skull Lake, before sending his minion Kraang Droids, to chases and kill all the survivors to prevent from calling for help using mobile communication vehicles. Afterwards, Fung searches for top secret data about the AllSpark from the remains of SOCCENT through computer terminals kept inside Software towers, but in the process accidentally sends a Morse Code signal informing Stealth Bombers and F-22s of his location.Upon defeating a group of Decepticon drones, Lola learns that Dexter couldn't accept that his sister was dead and began to make an android of her. But he wanted to make that gynoid as human as possible so he used real human organs in the gynoid. Suddenly Dexter heard voices of a mutant Jack Russell Terrier named Otis but Lola Bunny saves them, defeating Otis, Afterwards, he is contacted by Autobot leader Minerva Jane Squigglytail (kind-hearted, caring, understanding, supportive, selfless, serious, highly intelligent, calculating and wise Mouse) who informs that Dexter's past in possession of an artifact which could lead them to the AllSpark and, as such, must be protected at all costs. Ms. Mimi and her other surviving Autobots - Rex (a gruff, grumpy, fairly friendly highly intelligent, and aggressive tyrannosaurs) Larry (a hungry, fast-talking courageous and capable fighter, Medic Officer, hadrosaur) and Milli (A sweet, cute, generous and true brave. She is the only female member, and the leader of Team Umizoomi) soon land on Earth and assume alternate forms as well (namely a Mouse, a Tyrannosaurus Rex, Lambeosaurus and Elf). After they meet with Lola Bunny Dexter comes and gathers his allies and friends in his lab. The latter gives them the artifact - his grandfather's glasses - and Ms. Mimi tells Dexter that it's nice to depend on your friends as part of a team. Larry explain is proceeds to explain to the two humans their mission on Earth: to find the Omnitrix and use it to revitalize their homeworld of dimension, that the Decepticon leader Vilgax currently trapped in the an alternate history, burned the location of the Omnitrix in Dexter's grandfather's glasses for the Decepticons to find.During this time, the Decepticon second commander Mandark, is gathering an army to retrieve the Omnitrix and arrives at an airbase, which he destroys after recruiting Brawl, and Sky Man. The Autobots' location is detected by the Sector 7 agency and helicopters are sent to capture them. Milli used Karate to creates a distraction, allowing the others to escape, but the Autobots are then attacked by another group of Decepticon drones, led by Hydra a monster with five heads Ms. Mimi used an energy sword to cut it's head but Hydra's wound, as three separate writhing heads sprout from the wound, admiring each other before beginning the rematch. Knowing the Hydra gave them enough trouble with just one head, Ms. Mimi and her other Autobots team attack Hydra. Together they soar into the sky as the hero fights back, to little avail. With each head Lola slices off, three more grow in its place (to the point that they start sprouting four and even five heads at a time). Frantically, Autobots fight the drones, with Ms. Mimi punches the cliff, which causes an avalanche of rocks to fall. The Hydra freezes as all of her heads look up in fear, then she is crushed and buried in a mountain of rocks, ultimately defeating her for good. Dexter, and Lola Bunny are captured by Auntie Roon is an ancient evil witch who was banished from the magic realm by the mighty Te Xuan Ze of her time. Decoding Decepticon's transmissions, the Autobots then discover that Mandark, Vilgax's second-in-command, has also learned about the Omnitrix and Vilgax's whereabouts. Lola and Dexter are imprisoned at the Hoover Dam, but the former manages to escape following a power outage, While exploring the base, she stumbles upon the frozen Vilgax, and his Omnitrix. As Vilgax partially unfreezes himself, he attacks Lola Bunny who manages to retrieve the Omnitrix, and escape with Dexter. Mandark and Fung then attack the dam and free Vilgax.The Autobots travel to the Dark Island with her Omnitrix whose power surges transform ordinary machines into Jackbots attack Lola While Rex protects Lola, Milli and Starfire defeats Fung, Sky man and Mandark got away, but is then killed by Brawl who is in turn defeated by Rex. Meanwhile, Lola fights back to the two boys (Butch and Brick). They are still irked, but after a tense moment defeating two boys by Lola Bunny, then she is quickly subdued by Overlord (as Vilgax) as heading to Ninjago City, a huge vortex in the sky.Determined to protect the city, Dareth challenges the advancing tank, but the Overlord drives him off with a few shots from the tank's side-mounted turrets. As a corrupted Monstrous Dee Dee looks on and Dareth wonders where the ninja are, the Garmatron continues to fire shots into the city, spreading Dark Matter everywhere-atop the tank, massive wings emerge from the Overlord's back.After the Autobots travel to Ninjago city, shortly after they are all autobots surrounded by Kozu-at his command, the Stone Army opens fire on the Ultra Dragon. Dexter slashes at a group of Stone Warriors. But The mech's arm gets shot off. Monstrous Dee Dee laughs and keeps shooting at him until he falls over. They jump out and fight for Dexter, He makes a windshield to protect them from Dark Matter. She breaks the Ice. She retreats back up the building. The Autobots are outnumbered. Ms. Mimi quickly explains to the other two that whoever wears the Helmet of Shadows controls the Stone Army. The older leader autobots trio sets off in search of the helmet, only to see Dareth putting it on his head; back at the fortress, the Stone Army freezes moments they destroyed it by Autobots Dragon used flamethrower and Explosion, The Autobots climbing the stairs but are forced to land when a shot clips its tail. Meanwhile the autobots's numbers slowly dwindle due to their enemies' relentless assault; Lola and Rex are corrupted by the Overlord's darkness, Larry stays back to fight his infected teammates, and Ms. Mimi quickly kicks Auntie Roon's turret to keep her occupied, leaving Dexter said that he couldn't care since he hasn't have a sister, but Mandark says he has and that she is called Olga Astronomonov. He told Dexter about her and became mad and thought that Dexter was going to try to kill his sister, to get even with him. So Mandark called a giant Cluster to battle Dexter. The Cluster grabbed Dexter and he became unconsious, and couldn't escape. The Overlord opens his mouth and blasts Dexter with Darkness, nearly pushing him off the building. He looks back at the city beneath him. Dexter looks back at the Overlord. But Its block by a Black seed turns the fuse together into a single Girl with the powers of all seven (Spirit becomes the "Diamond Sister") Energy force field grows, harming the Overlord. She's gi has changed to a rainbow color.The Overlord swipes at Diamond Sister and the latter is pushed back. Diamond Sister blocks his wing and is kicked backward. Diamond Sister counterattacks. She kicks the Overlord, sending him back Dexter was saved by a Dragon on his back, and summons her seven sisters to turn into a Golden Dragon. The Golden Dragon tackles the Overlord, and they are both sent falling downward. Both dragons nearly crash into Dareth. The latter covers his head. The two dragons move upward.The Overlord surrounds her with a cloud of shadow, allowing himself to grow in size. The Overlord starts laughing and attempts to devour Diamond Sister, however, the latter starts resisting and Diamond Sister uses Golden Power to defeat the Overlord. The Overlord implodes, and the fog engulfing, then crashing Overlord's fortress buried by a mountain with all the colours of the rainbow the entire city disappears, with everyone who was corrupted turned back to normal. Ms. Mimi awakens to find that both Dexter, Lola Bunny, Larry, and Rex are back to normal. Then Papa Smurf wonders if they did it-in response, Dareth says they all did it 200 Smurfs, Dwarfs, Fairly, and lots of people gather both Autobots and save their city vowing to be ready if the Overlord ever does try to return. Dexter's mood quickly turns melancholy, however, as Ms. Mimi tells him that everyone will miss his sister. On cue, a pile of rocks shifts, and a Monstrous Vilgax is ultimately killed after The Overlord, Ms. Mimi takes the AllSpark and rams it into Vilgax's chest, destroying both him and the AllSpark. The government orders the decommission of Sector 7 and has the deceased Decepticons dumped into the Laurentian Abyss.The game ends with the surviving Autobots choosing to remain on Earth and protect it from any potential future threat.In the post-credits, Mandark, who fled the battle, escapes into space.