While riding the subway to class, music student Cheryl (Natasha Hovey) is given a free pass to a movie theater by a silent, imposing man wearing a metal mask (Michele Soavi). She persuades her classmate, Kathy (Paola Cazzo), to skip class and go to the film with her. There they meet two young men, George (Urbano Barberini) and Ken (Karl Zinny). Other attendees include a smoothly dressed black man, Tony (Bobby Rhodes), and his two girlfriends, Rosemary (Geretta Geretta) and Carmen (Fabiola Toledo), cranky husband Frank (Stelio Candelli) and bitter wife Ruth (Nicole Tessier), young couple Tommy (Guido Baldi) and Hannah (Fiore Argento) and blind man Werner (Alex Serra) and his daughter Liz (Enrica Maria Scrivero). In the lobby of the theater, Rosemary tries on a prop demon mask that leaves a cut on her cheek.Kathy is upset to learn they have come to see a horror film, even though George and Ken offer to "protect" her and Cheryl. In the film, a group of college students ride their motor bikes to the ruins of an old castle rumored to be the burial place of Nostradamus. One of the characters puts on a demon mask identical to the one in the lobby, and it cuts his face. At this moment, the scratch on Rosemary's cheek begins to throb. She goes to the bathroom to take care of it but instead transforms into a demon -- mirroring the character's transformation in the film. Rosemary mauls Carmen, who had followed her to the bathroom. Badly injured, Carmen crashes through the movie screen just as the possessed characters hacks at his friends with a knife.As the horrified audience crowds around her, Carmen transforms into a demon and kills Frank, while Carmen strangles Liz and gouges out Werner's eyes. She and Rosemary then chase the rest of the audience members through the theater. All of the exits have been boarded up somehow. Believing the film is somehow causing people to become demons, Tony leads Kathy, Cheryl, George and Kelly to the projection booth to shut it down. Finding no one there, they smash the projectors then barricade themselves in the balcony. Werner tells them the film isn't the source of evil, the theater itself is. Now also transformed into demons, Frank and Liz attack the others. Liz bites Tony in the leg while Frank vomits demonic blood all over Hannah. When four punks -- Ripper (Lino Salemme), Hot Dog (Giuseppe Maro Cruciane), Baby Pig (Peter Pitsch) and Nina (Bettina Ciampolini) -- manage to break into the theater, the now demonified Werner slips out into a street where he attacks two police officers. Hannah and Tommy try to crawl through a ventilation shaft, but Hannah has been transformed into a demon herself and kills Tommy. Believing the punks are there to rescue them, the survivors begin to tear down the barricades, but this only allows the demons to reach the balcony and attack them. Everyone except Kathy, Cheryl, George and Ken are slaughtered.George and Ken decide to use the ventilation shafts as well, but before anyone can enter, Kathy begins to transform into a demon as well -- she had swallowed some demon blood during the escape from the balcony. When Ken beats her with the air conditioning grate, a new demon bursts from her back and rakes him across the chest. George is forced to kill him with a prop sword from the lobby. He then rides a fully gassed up motorcycle, another prop in the lobby, to ride through the theater and hack to bits most of the demons, including the four punks.Then a helicopter crashes through the ceiling. George uses its propeller to kill the rest of the demons and then its winch and grappling hook to access the theater's roof. There the metal mask man attacks them, but George is able to kill him by stabbing him in the eye with a piece of rebar. George and Cheryl make it to the street only to learn the demonic infection has spread into the city, which now resembles a war zone. They are picked up by a man and his children, who have apparently stockpiled weapons for just such an event. As they drive out of the city, Cheryl transforms into a demon, having been infected at some point in the theater. The man's young son quickly guns her down, and they leave her body in the road.