In a deserted spot deep at the heart of the peaceful natural valleys of France, a couple of young lovers has just finished a picnic lunch underneath the shade of a tree. The young man is taking a nap under the pine trees, while his girlfriend, who is pregnant, is reading a book and munching on strawberries. Suddenly the young woman starts to have contractions. Her companion wakes in a state of panic and helps her up. The future parents rush off in their red beetle car, leaving the tablecloth with the remains of their picnic lunch behind them.At the same time, not very far away in the valley where many mini-beasts, insects and bugs are living peacefully, under some leaves at the edge of a clearing, two ladybird beetle parents are giving birth to three newborn young baby bugs. After their first lesson in how to take off and fly, the little family starts to head home...Except that the littlest ladybug named Cox is also the most intrepid one and prefers discovering the outside world to obeying his mother and takes off alone in the forest. Very soon the brave little ladybug meets a family gang of mean bully flies that taunt, bully and chase him. Cox The Ladybug tries to escape, but due to his lack of experience he is soon overtaken by the gang, loses control and falls into a crevasse. Left for dead by the flies, Cox slowly comes to and realises he has lost a wing in the accident. When night falls, he crawls out of the crevasse and calls out for his parents. As no one answers, Cox starts to wander into the forest lost in the pouring rainstorm and finally finds refuge in a lunchbox tin of sugar cubes abandoned by the young couple.The following day, a column of black ants, attracted by the scent of sugar, heads for the sugar box. On orders from their leader, Mandible, the worker ants lift up the box and start to take it back to their ant hill nest mound. A little later, Cox, who had remained sleeping inside the box, saves the ants' lives by chasing away a large hungry lizard, thus earning his place among the ants and Mandible decides to protect him.the ants soon come across a group of evil red bull ants, who want some of their sugar. Mandible gives them only one cube, and then keeps moving on. their dark leader, Butor, has hunger for more and wants the whole box for the red bull ants. so he and his tribe pursue the black ants. the black ants attempt to go faster after noticing them but soon come to a steep rocky hill and attempt to get away by sliding down the edge of the hill, the sugar box tumbles down the hill and into the river where it floats downstream and becomes a ride. but Butor and his minions soon chase them into the river themselves in a green rusty can and start chasing them downstream, becoming an action-packed river chase. Butor's can soon collides with the sugar box, causing Cox to fall off into the river. Cox is chased and almost eaten by a hungry pike fish named Boboche, but is saved by Mandible.after the chase, the ants encounter a waterfall and a yellow car before eventually making it to their nest hill mound. there they show their sugar cubes to their ant queen, who, after eating one, lays trillions and trillions of eggs. Cox then sleeps with the ants and dreams of his home in the valley and soon realises that he has grown his wing back and can fly now.the ants soon wake up the next morning to find that Butor and the red bull ants' queen have formed a dark evil army mob of red bull ants and start a war battle at the nest, throwing weapons into the mound trying to break in with a battering ram. Mandible, after thinking and looking at his collection of objects and tools, comes up with a plan. he takes out some matches and some explosives, and only manages to light one due to being short of matches. Cox soon remembers that there was another matchbox back at the picnic, tells Mandible and Mandible sends him to fetch it for him.Cox flies back to the picnic rug and finds that a black spider is taking the matchbox with him. Cox follows the spider to its dollhouse home inside a sewer that his parents warned him of, Cox manages to sneak in but in almost eaten by a large hungry frog named Jean-Paul but the dollhouse instead fall over sideways and crushes Jean off-screen. the spider cheers Cox up with some music and food, and Cox then informs him of his situation and the spider lets him take the matchbox back to the mound. but on his way he comes across the flies from before, whom are now bullying a female ladybug. Cox chases them across the valley 'til they are finally all killed and wiped out when getting by the yellow car, Cox falls in love with the ladybug but soon has to resume his journey.when he returns, the ant nest has been almost destroyed and the bull ants have almost broken in. but the ants soon use the matches to light the explosives and destroy the bull ants, however, Butor survives and vows revenge. the fire from the explosion destroys the nest mound, but the ants soon start reconstructing the mound. Cox gets married to the female ladybug, and then him and Mandible look into the sunset while standing on a hill heroically remembering their victory and looking forward to the future.