During a particularly intense, humid Florida heatwave, inept and disreputable lawyer Ned Racine (William Hurt) meets Matty Walker (Kathleen Turner). Matty is married but her wealthy husband Edmund Walker (Richard Crenna) is frequently away on business. Racine and Matty begin an affair.They go to great lengths to keep their affair a secret, though there are incidents like Racine making advances to a woman he thought was Matty but turns out to be Mary Ann Simpson (Kim Zimmer), one of her old school friends. Another incident occurs when Matty is caught performing oral sex on Racine by Edmund's adolescent niece Heather ([Carola McGuinness]). Racine even gets to meet Edmund himself when he comes across the Walkers by chance in a restaurant.Matty soon makes it clear that she wants to dump Edmund but also wants his money. A prenuptial agreement means that in the event of a divorce she will be left with only a small fraction of his fortune. Racine, who is just as selfish and greedy, agrees that the only option is to kill Edmund.Planning the murder, Racine consults one of his shadier clients, Teddy Lewis (Mickey Rourke), an expert on incendiary devices. Edmund's will leaves half his fortune to his niece Heather, daughter of his sister Roz Kraft (Lanna Saunders). Matty dislikes this arrangement and tries to convince Racine to do something about it, but he blocks her suggestions on the grounds that nothing suspicious must happen in Edmund's life in the days leading up to his death.On the night Racine plans to kill Edmund, he drives to Miami and checks into a motel to give himself an alibi. He then drives back to Edmund and Matty's house and murders Edmund. Racine moves Edmund's body to an abandoned beachfront hotel that Edmund owns. Racine detonates the arson device, hoping to make it look like Edmund tried to commit arson and insurance fraud, but was accidentally killed in the process.Some time after his victim's death has been officially declared, Racine is contacted by Edmund's lawyer Miles Hardin (Michael Ryan) who raises the matter of a will that Racine is supposed to have drawn up on Edmund's behalf and was witnessed by Matty's friend Mary Ann Simpson. Racine did no such thing but has to play along in order to avoid suspicion. This new will was poorly written and thus legally invalid. The result is that Matty will inherit Edmund's entire fortune and there is nothing for his surviving blood relatives, including Heather.Matty later admits to Racine that she forged the will, inspired by a similar incident that she got to know about while working in a lawyer's office in Chicago. Racine is annoyed by this since it means that there will be suspicions about Edmund's death and indeed Roz starts to pressure the police into making more in-depth inquiries into the case. She even takes Heather to the police station to tell about her seeing "Aunt Matty" and some man. Heather meets Racine but fails to recognize him and gives the police little to work on.Racine no longer makes secret his affair with Matty, though he claims that it has only recently begun. His friends, assistant deputy prosecutor Peter Lowenstein (Ted Danson) and police detective Oscar Grace (J.A. Preston), tell him that Edmund's eyeglasses, which he always wore, cannot be found in the burned building, suggesting he was killed elsewhere. The police also cannot find Mary Ann Simpson, the woman who witnessed the will. Racine is increasingly nervous about the mounting evidence implicating him. Questioning Matty's intentions, he, by chance, meets another lawyer (Thom Sharp) who once reluctantly sued him over a mishandled legal case. The lawyer reveals that to make up for that he recommended Racine to Matty Walker, long before Racine himself ever met her.Lowenstein tells Racine that, on the night of the murder, hotel phone records show that someone repeatedly called Racine's room without getting an answer. Racine realizes that Grace and Lowenstein are beginning to suspect him. Teddy Lewis, who has been arrested on a separate issue, tells Racine that a woman recently came to see him. She bought an incendiary device and asked Teddy to show her how to use a door to trigger it.Matty calls Racine and tells him that her housekeeper found the glasses and is demanding blackmail money for them. Matty says she paid the housekeeper, who left the glasses in the boathouse near her home. Matty asks Racine to go to the boathouse and get them.Racine goes to the boathouse and cautiously looks through the window. He sees a long, twisted electrical wire attached to the inside of the door and connected to Lewis' incendiary device. When Matty turns up, Racine confronts her with a gun. She admits to first meeting him on purpose but claims to now really love him. He tells her to prove it by going to the boathouse and getting the glasses. She does so and the building explodes in the presence of Racine and Grace who was looking for him, having obtained enough evidence for an arrest.The police find a burned corpse inside the boathouse. It is identified through dental records as Matty Walker, maiden name Tyler. Edmund's money has disappeared and cannot be traced.In prison, Racine comes to believe that Matty is in fact still alive and comes up with a theory: he believes that the body found in the boathouse is actually that of the woman he briefly knew as Mary Ann Simpson, the woman who allegedly witnessed Edmund's "new" will.The woman he knew as Matty had a shady past: she once admitted to him that she had taken drugs. He believes that she, born Mary Ann Simpson, then assumed the identity of Matty Tyler, an old school acquaintance, in order to marry Edmund Walker and get his money. The real Matty Tyler discovered this and played along, presumably in exchange for some of the money, but was then murdered and left in the boathouse.Racine obtains a copy of Matty's high school yearbook which includes photos of Mary Ann Simpson and Matty Tyler: but "Mary Ann Simpson" is the woman he knew as Matty! This confirms his suspicion that they swapped identities. Below Mary Ann's photo is the nickname "The Vamp" and "Ambition - To be rich and live in an exotic land".Meanwhile, the woman Racine knew as Matty Walker, but who is really Mary Ann Simpson, lounges on a tropical beach alongside a Brazilian Portuguese-speaking man.