Wallace & Gromit have now become bakers, and have started a new bread baking business called "Top Bun". Their household of #62 West Wallaby Street is now a bread bakery factory filled with bread baking Rube-Goldberg machines and a windmill on the roof, especially in the basement, kitchen, attic and even in Wallace's bedroom. However, they recently read in the newspaper about 12 local bakers (including Bob The Baker) across the town of Wigan being killed by a wanted dark evil mysterious bread-hating baker-murdering cereal criminal figure. Gromit starts worrying for Wallace's safety, concerned that they might be next.
one day while the couple are out delivering bread, they see a pin-up girl for a bakery company riding on a bike with her poodle. but her brakes fail as she starts sliding down the hill, Wallace & Gromit chase after her. Wallace jumps onto her bike and attempts to stop it but the bike slides all the way down the hill and into the West Wallaby city zoo towards the crocodile pen. The poodle falls into one of the crocodiles' jaws, but Gromit luckily jumps in and saves the poodle just in time before death by crocodiles. the pin-up girl her name as "Piella Bakerwell" and gives her poodle's name as "Fluffles".The next few days, Wallace is going out with Piella a lot and leaving poor Gromit to do all the work by himself. Piella soon puts flowers all over the house and throws out all of Gromit's things, Gromit gets angrier with Piella but Wallace seems to either not mind or not notice because of Wallace's interest in her. but Fluffles gives Gromit his things back and Gromit develops his own interest in Fluffles. Wallace soon realises that Piella forgot her purse after she left and is determined to return it to her, but soon finds that it is a thunderstorm and leaves it to Gromit. Gromit arrives at Piella's house and notices in her room there are 13 wooden statues with baker hats on them (except one) and a book with crossed out photos of bakers in it and notices there's one of Wallace which isn't crossed out.The next day Gromit brings the book home and tries wordlessly convincing Wallace that this Piella could be a bad egg and a suspect but Wallace doesn't understand nor is interested and even reveals that he and she are engaged to be married. Gromit's chance to convince Wallace is burned up when Piella throws the book in the fireplace without Wallace taking notice and it goes up in flames. so Gromit works all night reading B. A. Lurt's book "Electronic Surveillance For Dogs" and constructs a security machine which can detect weapons if anyone comes to the door. the alarm goes off when Piella arrives in the morning but doesn't let Gromit inspect her though her soup she is carrying seems suspicious. Gromit locks up all the cutlery and just manages to stop Wallace from eating her soup. Piella then frames Gromit for taking a bite out of her hand and Wallace tells Gromit to clean every last dish in the kitchen. Piella then puts her foot on a cog in the attic where she tries to push Wallace off a plank, but fails when a swinging bag of flour knocks her off the plank down the stairs. She then yells at Wallace and admits she hates bakers and bread, and takes Fluffles home with her.She soon comes back when Wallace & Gromit are having tea and brings cake as an apology, but says she has to go home to Fluffles because she isn't feeling well. Gromit quickly travels to her place to find Fluffles but Piella catches him and throws him into a storeroom with Fluffles where they are locked up. but they luckily manage to grab a hot air balloon and fly across town to Wallace where he's just about to light the candles on the cake, Gromit swings in and smashes through the window. sliding down the table he grabs a flower vase and throws the water all over Wallace and the cake to go get the fire out, but he fails and picks up the cake off the table. but Wallace jumps on top of him to stop him and the cake disguise falls apart and a bomb falls out, revealing that the cake was actually a bomb. Piella then appears with Fluffles revealing that she is the cereal killer all along. Gromit grabs the bomb and climbs into the attic to dispose of the bomb, but Piella hits Gromit causing him to fly backwards into the kitchen in a giant mixing pot of bread dough and causing the bomb to fly out the window. Piella chases Wallace through the attic floor with a wrench, but Wallace is saved, though also tossed out the window and near the bomb on the edge on one of the windmill's blades, by Fluffles in their forklift truck. Fluffles and Piella get into a big battle in the attic. In the process, they send two rolling pins out the window, both of which bang on the windmill blades. causing both Wallace and the bomb to fall off the blades and into Wallace's bedroom through the window. as Piells is losing the battle with only one rolling pin, the other flies from her hand and knocks a lever, causing Wallace's "Bed Launcher" to turn on. Piella almost loses but unfortunately manages to escape through the window and onto the windmill, the Bed Launcher ends up causing the bomb to go down Wallace's trousers and is filled with dough to save Wallace from the explosion. Piella tells Wallace that she'll be back, only to realize she's too heavy for the balloon and falls back into the crocodile pit where she's eaten.after Piella's death from the crocodiles, Fluffles becomes part of the family and they all drive into the sunset delivering bread and the film ends.