The film starts with Bruno (played by Asa Butterfield) who comes to find that his father, a Nazi officer, has been promoted and is in charge of a concentration camp though Bruno does not know it. Bruno also finds out that he, his father (Ralf), mother (Elsa) and sister (Gretel) are required to move from their home in Berlin and they relocate to modern day Poland, the location of the camp. Whilst there Bruno is forbidden from exploring and playing in the garden after his parents become aware that he can see the concentration camp from the garden. Bruno and his sister are also allocated a personal tutor who pushes an antisemitic program of education to the children. As a result Gretel becomes increasingly supportive of the Nazi regime, however, Bruno is not so easily persuaded as the Jews that help from the concentration camp don't fit the characteristics he has been taught to associate with them.One day Bruno disobeys his parents and goes exploring which brings him to the fence of the concentration camp where he meets another boy his own age named Shmuel (played by Jack Scanlon) and it is discovered that they are both unaware of what is going on in the camp. Bruno visits Shmuel regularly often bringing food with him, eventually, Bruno discovers that Shmuel is a Jew and was brought to the camp with his parents.Meanwhile, Lieutenant Kotler reveals to Elsa that the smoke from the camp is from burning the corpses of the Jews, this causes her to confront Ralf. After Kotler violently beats Pavel, one of the Jews who act as servants, and Shmuel is sent as his replacement, upon seeing him Bruno starts to socialize with him and gives him food before being interrupted by Kotler, Kotler then proceeds to shout at Shmeul before asking him where he got the food. Shmuel tells Kotler that Bruno gave him the food but Bruno denies this out of fear for Kotler. When Bruno and Shmuel next meet Shmuel has a black eye but Bruno is forgiven.Later in the story, Ralf tells Bruno and Gretel that they are going with their mother to live with another relative, meanwhile, Shmuel's father goes missing in the concentration camp, Bruno promises Shmuel that he will help look for him. The day that Bruno is due to leave Shmuel gives Bruno a camp uniform and Bruno goes under a loose bit of fence when he reaches the more central part of the camp Bruno starts to discover its true nature.Meanwhile Elsa discovers Bruno is missing and a full search is ordered, sniffer dogs quickly find Bruno's discarded clothes by the fence, meanwhile, Bruno and Shmuel are lead into a gas chamber although they and the other Jews are unaware of it until the Nazi soldier pours the gas in and the prisoners start to panic. Bruno and Schmuel don't understand what's going on but grip each others' hands. Ralf realizes that a gassing is underway and cries out his son's name, with Elsa and Gretel falling to their knees and sobbing in realization of what's happened. Ralf stands in shock, staring ahead. The film then shows a shot of the now silent gas chamber, indicating that they have all died. The film ends with a message about the casualties of the Holocaust.