A hooded figure photographs a young woman's corpse in an empty field, followed by a montage of Internet screenshots and videos of women being killed in ritual murders by a cybercult. Footage of the murders is uploaded on an anonymous underground website where members are encouraged to "kill Kristy", a name of Latin origin meaning "follower of God".The scene shifts to college student Justine (Haley Bennett), who is is attending a private university in the Northeastern United States on financial aid, and is unable to afford to fly home for Thanksgiving. Her boyfriend Aaron (Lucas Till) and roommate Nicole (Erica Ash) both leave for the break, leaving Justine to spend the holiday alone on a nearly empty college campus, aside from security guard Wayne (Mathew St. Patrick), front gate worker Dave (Al Vincente), and groundskeeper Scott (James Ransone).On Thanksgiving night, Justine uses Nicole's BMW to drive to a nearby convenience store. Inside the store, a hooded girl named Violet (Ashley Greene), compliments the car and later asks for a student discount on sunglasses at the counter. Justine offers to pay for them, but the girl refuses and calls her "Kristy". That night, Justine finds that someone has accessed her laptop, as a snuff film plays on the screen. Violet appears in the room with a box-cutter knife, and Justine flees. Outside, Wayne is murdered in front of her by a masked man and she finds Dave killed in his vehicle.The four cult killers assemble whom include Violet and three other men wearing blue, black, and grey hoodies. Violet begins recording Justine, telling her that they will hunt her and that she should "run to God". Justine flees to Scott's house for help. However, the killers murder his dog and hang him from a swing set in the yard. Justine attempts to call 9-1-1 from Scott's cell, but the gang has hacked it. They begin sending her video clips of herself and menacing text messages. Justine attempts to hide but is chased to the roof and cornered. She leaps from the roof but falling through the branches of a tree help break her fall.Aaron arrives on the campus to check on Justine, but he is also quickly killed. Justine uses Aaron's car to pin one of the cult members against a wall and crush him to death. She hides in the gym's swimming pool, stabbing a second member with her car keys and drowning him. Soon after, she beats a third to death with a baseball bat. She reads a text on the dead member's phone; it is from Violet asking if he has "killed Kristy yet". Justine responds "yes" and finds photos of the cult's other victims, with their declaration to kill the "Kristys" of the world: pure, beautiful, and privileged women who they believe follow God.Justine uses pool chemicals to create a flammable powder. She dresses herself in the dead man's mask and jacket, and approaches the car where Violet is. Justine informs Violet that the others are dead, and when Violet comes toward her, Justine douses her with the flammable powder, burning Violet alive. Justine photographs Violet's corpse with the cellphone and uploads it to the website.A montage at the end reveals that a series of similar cult murders have occurred in other states and cities but with Justine's testimony and access to the phone, many of the cult's members have been arrested. A post-credits scene shows a young woman being attacked by another cult killer outside her home, but the attacker is stopped by another masked individual.