Akash, Sameer, and Sid have just graduated from college and take a trip to Goa to celebrate. At a scenic spot by the sea, they relax and vow to return there every year. Only Sid is skeptical that they will remain friends once life takes over. On their return, Sameer is arranged by his parents to marry Pooja, his parents' friends' daughter, while Akash's parents ask him to manage the family business in Sydney. Around the same time, Sid meets a new neighbor, Tara (a divorcee and much older than Sid) who lives alone and whom he helps to move in. Soon, two of the friends have fallen in love: Sameer with Pooja and Sid with Tara. Tara receives a distressing call from her ex-husband on her birthday. To cheer her up, Sid takes her out to celebrate with Akash and Sameer. After dropping her on the way back, he tells his friends that he loves her. Akash makes a disparaging remark about Tara's age, causing Sid to slap him. Akash and Sameer are both shocked, and the former leaves the night with anger.Sid leaves the town, and Akash departs for Sydney. On the flight, he runs into Shalini, a one-time acquaintance from college who agrees to show him around Sydney while there. Meanwhile, Sameer waits for Pooja to dump her much-disciplined boyfriend Subodh and eventually asks her out. Tara walks in on Sid telling his mother about his feelings and does not wish to talk with him for believing a relationship between them is possible. In Sydney, Akash is having a change of heart by falling in love with Shalini. Shalini, however, is engaged and returns to India to marry Rohit. The heartbroken Akash is asked to return home by his father. Encouraged by those around him and Shalini's uncle Mahesh, he talks to Shalini on the eve of her wedding and proposes to her. Shalini is conflicted by loyalty to Rohit's parents, who raised her after the death of her parents. Rohit's parents ask her to listen to her heart and marry Akash instead.In the present day, Sid finds Tara in an advanced stage of cirrhosis. He rushes to the hospital, but she passes away while still talking to him. Sid is devastated, but the night gave him the chance to reunite with Sameer and reconcile with Akash. Six months later, the friends return to Goa as promised, accompanied by Shalini and Pooja. At their picnic spot from earlier, Sid sees a woman in the distance who smiles at him. He approaches her and the film ends with the three couples enjoying dinner together at a restaurant.