We open several years after the events of the previous film. A flying saucer leaves Witch Mountain headed for Los Angeles. It lands in the middle of Rose Bowl Stadium, and it's passengers disembark. Tony and Tia Malone, now teenagers, are being dropped off by their uncle Bene for a well-earned vacation in the city, having spent the previous years helping to develop their colony of extra-terrestrial survivors and learning to master their supernatural powers. They come to the locked front gate and Tony uses telekinesis to fly over it, but Uncle Bene has Tia simply unlock it instead. He tells the kids not to use their powers unless absolutely necessary to avoid unwanted attention, and tells them to focus on enjoying their vacation. They are picked up by an egocentric taxi driver named Eddie, who claims to have a perfect safety record despite his reckless driving. The children enjoy the drive through LA even so.
A black car pulls into a quiet back street, and three people get out. Eccentric scientist Doctor Victor Gannon, his benefactor Letha Wedge, and her nephew and henchman Sickle. Gannon is about to test his new experiment on Sickle; a mind control device. Gannon tells Sickle, who has a fear of heights, to climb one of the tall buildings to the roof, and when Sickle refuses, Gannon activates the mind control device. Speaking into a control box, he reiterates his command, and Sickle complies.
Tia and Tony notice the cab beginning to stutter. Eddie was so busy complaining about the other drivers on the road that he failed to notice the taxi running out of gas. They pull over and Eddie walks to a gas station to get a new can. When Eddie leaves, Tony and Tia have a premonition of someone falling. Tony tells Tia to wait by the cab for Eddie while he investigates to try and help. Tia agrees and tells him to be careful, and Tony goes to where he thinks the vision came from.
Gannon is thrilled at the success of his device, and tells Sickle to walk along the roof ledge, which he does. Letha is nervous Sickle will fall, and tries to take the control box from Gannon, who drops it in the struggle. The control box is damaged, and Gannon can no longer command Sickle, who is continuing to walk toward the end of the roof. Tony rounds the corner just as Sickle steps off the edge. Using his powers, he stops Sickle just before he hits the ground, and helps him to the sidewalk. Gannon and Letha are astonished, and Victor puts together very quickly that the boy is responsible for this miracle. He tells Letha he needs him for his experiments, and Letha distracts Tony while Gannon comes up behind him and jabs him with a tranquilizer needle, knocking him unconscious. Tia immediately feels that something is wrong, and runs to investigate. She gets there too late to see Gannon, Letha, and Sickle take off with Tony in their car. Eddie returns with the gas can, and upon finding the taxi unoccupied, leaves without the children. Unable to find Tony, Tia returns to where the taxi was, only to find it gone. Tia wanders the city looking for Tony, and stumbles into a group of boys running from a rival gang of much tougher kids. They tell her to run to and she follows them. Tia and the boys run into a closed off alleyway and hide, but their pursuers are closing in. Tia uses her telekinesis to fight the rival gang, giving her and the other boys time to get away. They thank her for her help and introduce themselves as the Earthquake Gang; Rocky, Muscles, Crusher, and Dazzler. They are would-be tough kids trying to establish themselves as a real gang, but it is clear to Tia that they are in over their heads. Despite this, they offer to help her find Tony. After spending all day searching, they come up empty.
Tia does not have a place to stay, since Uncle Bene had pre-arranged a hotel but gave Eddie the address, and Eddie drove away with all their luggage, so the Earthquakes offer to put her up in their hideout. On the way, they dodge a man in a minibus looking for the boys. The gang tells Tia the man is a truant officer named "Yoyo" Yokomoto. They successfully evade him and make it to the hideout. The hideout itself is the attic of an old abandoned house in a construction supply area. While the Earthquakes discuss what to do next, Tia suddenly gets a connection with Tony. Concentrating, she can only see a light shining down. After a few moments, the vision goes black.
Across the city at Letha's mansion, Tony, still knocked out, is strapped to a table in Gannon's laboratory in the cellar. Even unconscious, Tony is putting out too much energy to measure, shorting out Gannon's equipment. Gannon is repairing his mind control device and plans to use it on Tony, plotting to become the most influential man in the world with a super powered person at his bidding. Letha, however, is merely concerned with seeing a return on her investment, claiming that building Gannon's laboratory has left her bankrupt, and now nervous about the kidnapping. Gannon brushes her off, but she warns him that he'd better find a way to make her some capital with his invention. Tony begins to regain consciousness wake up, allowing for Tia's momentary contact with him, but Victor quickly injects him with more sedative and he passes out again.
The Earthquakes have to go home, revealing that they still have families and haven't worked up the nerve to run away and start their gang for real yet, but promise to return in the morning with breakfast. Tia thanks them for their kindness, which discourages them since they want to be bad boys.
The next day, Gannon has finished placing the tiny mind control device on Tony, hidden behind his ear. He activates it and it works perfectly. He wakes Tony up, and immediately Tia has another telepathic vision. She can temporarily see what Tony sees, which is just the laboratory machines and surgical instruments. Tia mistakes this for a hospital room, and she and the Earthquakes go to check the all the hospitals. Gannon asks Tony who he is and about his powers, and Tony has no choice but to tell him. Victor orders a demonstration of his powers, and Tony effortlessly unstraps himself from the table. Sickle is skeptical, so Gannon has Tony make an anesthesia canister chase him, and also has him stack multiple heavy wine casks to prove to Letha. She and Victor toast to the possibilities.
Tia and the boys have searched every hospital in town, and no sign of Tony. Tia tries to contact him, but his mind is blank. The boys promise to keep looking.
That night, Letha discusses the situation with Sickle. She imagines gambling in Las Vegas with Tony controlling the dice, but first she needs money to gamble with. Luckily, she sees an opportunity in the form of a huge stack of gold on display at a local museum. Sickle points out that Gannon won't allow Letha to use Tony to steal the gold, but she doesn't plan to ask permission.
Tia lays awake in bed at the hideout, trying to connect telepathically with Tony, who is asleep in Gannon's lab. The mind control device prevents Tia from getting through.
The next day, Gannon goes into town to run errands, and Letha takes the opportunity to use the control box and take Tony to the museum. They arrive with a large crowd at the exhibit, and as Tony looks around, Tia gets another scattered vision. She describes what she sees, and Dazzler recognizes it as the gold exhibit at the museum. They make their way there.
Letha orders Tony to cause a diversion at the exhibit, including making a stagecoach roll out of control, making the dummies move, and destroying the security system. Pandemonium breaks out, and the security guards are completely occupied trying to stop the chaos.
Victor returns from his errands to find Tony gone, and angerly goes to Letha's study, finding the newspaper article about the gold.
Letha tells Tony to break the glass case and send the gold bars to Sickle outside, and Tony complies. Sickle however is unprepared for how heavy the gold is, and gets out of the way as the bars start flying at him. Tia and the gang arrive and find Sickle hiding under his car from the gold bars pelting the trunk. They get inside just in time to see the last of the gold floating out, and take in the madness going on around them. As Letha moves to leave with Tony, Tia starts to reverse what he has done. Tony reveals it's not his doing. Tia spots Tony and gets his attention, and Tony tells Letha that Tia is his sister and is like him. Letha runs out with the boy in tow and meets Sickle, who's car is completely crushed by the gold bars, and Victor, who has arrived and is furious with Letha. Tia puts an end to the last of the chaos inside, and chases after her older brother. She and the Earthquakes see Tony getting into a car with his captors, and Tia uses her powers to stop the engine from turning on. Letha explains about Tia to Victor, who commands Tony to override her and make the car start. Tia is unable to stop them as they drive away. Just then, Yoyo arrives trying to catch the boys, but Tia convinces them not to run away. They all jump into the minibus and Tia tells Yoyo to chase after the car, saying her brother is also a truant. Yoyo excitedly agrees, and Tia takes control of the van.
An intense chase commences. Gannon orders Tony to stop the van, but for every obstacle he puts in their way, Tia uses her powers to get around them, including lifting a school bus and making the van fly over a train. The minibus takes a beating, but Tia keeps it going. Victor stops over a steep hill and has Tony magnify the sun's reflection, blinding their pursuers and causing them to crash. Victor and his group get away as Tia and the Earthquakes leave Yoyo to deal with a police officer.
Gannon is fuming at Letha over the museum incident, but tells her he has a plan that will get them both what they want; money and prestige. Letha tells him that they still need to deal with Tia, as she might find them again and ruin their plans. Victor asks Tony how Tia found them and he explains her telepathy. Victor decides to use this to his advantage to get rid of her permanently.
Tia is awoken from sleep by a telepathic message from Tony. He tells her he has lost his powers and needs help, and lures her to Letha's mansion. She breaks in and goes to the lab. She is surprised by Gannon's lab animal, a goat named Alfred, but keeps looking for Tony. She finds him tied to a chair and blindfolded, but as she approaches, Sickle jumps her and knocks her out with chloroform. Gannon puts her in a portable chamber with anesthetic gas, leaving her unconscious.
The Earthquakes get to the hideout to find Tia missing, and worry about where she might have gone.
Tia is able to barely wake up, but is immobilized by the gas. She empathically asks Alfred the goat to go get help, and sends him to find the Earthquake gang. Alfred breaks out of the house and makes his way across the city.
Gannon, Sickle, Letha, and Tony drive to a plutonium processing plant. Gannon plans to make Tony threaten to cause a nuclear meltdown unless a ransom is paid. They drive right in, Tony getting rid of the gate guard and security scanners.
Alfred comes across Eddie's Taxi, and butts another passenger out to steal his ride. Eddie tries to brag about getting a safety award from his cab company soon, and doesn't immediately notice the goat in his backseat. When he does however, it distracts him and he crashes the cab. Alfred jumps out and makes it to the hideout, frightening the boys. He grabs Tia's jacket to get the gang to chase him back to the mansion.
Gannon and company get into the furnace area of the plutonium plant, levitating a guard to get out of their way, and sealing the door behind them.
The Earthquakes follow Alfred to the laboratory and find Tia. They shut off the gas and help her recover, and she has a vision of the round top of the plutonium plant. Describing it, Crusher thinks he knows where Tony must be, and they all race to find it.
Gannon commands Tony to shut off the cooling system and the furnace begins to overheat. Alarms go off in the control center, but they are unable to restart the system. Gannon calls to deliver his ultimatum: he will allow the plant to explode and destroy everything in the area unless they are given five million dollars, safe escort to an airport, and worldwide recognition of Gannon's scientific genius. The plant officials call and evacuation and scramble to get the money.
Crusher leads Tia and the others to a mini golf course with a large golf ball on the sign, but obviously, this is not what Tia saw. They notice Yoyo mulling around his destroyed van, but he seems uninterested in catching them. Curious, they go and ask him why he isn't chasing them, and he reveals that report of the crash got back to the Board of Education, and they are coming down to fire him for destroying city property. He admits that he just wanted to help the kids get a good education so they wouldn't wind up on the streets, which makes the boys feel guilty. Over the radio, they hear about the crisis at the plutonium plant, and Tia recognizes the problems as being caused by Tony's abilities. She is able to power the van enough to get there, and Yoyo drives the group to the plant.
The plant director calls Gannon to offer him all the money they've gathered so far, saying the furnace will go critical soon. Letha wants to take the deal, but Gannon will not compromise.
The surface of the plutonium plant is in chaos when Tia and her group arrives. They go to the control center and Tia gets the director to explain where the overload is so she can fix it. She and to boys make it through the evacuating employees to the furnace level deep underground. Tia spots Tony from a catwalk and calls out to him, alerting Gannon, Letha, and Sickle to their presence. Tia tries to get through to her brother telepathically, willing him to remember her. Tony tries to fight against the control, but Gannon's device overpowers him. Gannon orders Letha and Sickle to catch the Earthquakes while he deals with Tia, who splits up with the gang to find the cooling system. Gannon commands Tony to eliminate Tia by crashing into her with a heavy console, but Tia spots it coming and cuts it off with one of her own, and is able to evade Gannon. Crusher and Rocky find her and show her to the Emergency Cooling System, and she sends them away while she begins to focus on turning the coolant back on. On a panel, Victor notices the furnace temperature cooling, and orders Tony to turn it off again. Tia and Tony struggle against eachother over control of the system, but Tia eventually wins out and the system is restored, much to the relief of the plant staff, who had just finished gathering the cash. Gannon takes Tony and sees Tia across the cavernous furnace room. He hides around the corner and orders Tony to kill his sister. He sends a metal rail flying at her, but she blocks it with a door. Tia tries to get through to him again as he sends a giant pylon, which she also blocks. Victor tells Tony to pretend to remember Tia and lure her under a several ton crane box. He complies, and Tia walks under the steel booth, which Tony drops on her. Tia tries to hold up the crane, but is in danger of being crushed. Gannon runs out and orders Tony to force the crane and kill her, but Tia notices the control box in his hand. Putting the pieces together, she destroys the box, releasing Tony from Gannon's control. She replaces the crane, and sends the box flying down the halls away from Victor, who chases it. Tony is dazed and confused, but Tia removes the device from behind his ear and helps him remember everything that has occurred since they were separated.
With the control box disintegrated, Gannon tries to convince Tony and Tia to work with him anyway. Tony responds by levitating him a hundred feet in the air and setting him down on a painting scaffold hung from the ceiling. Letha and Sickle arrive with the Earthquakes in tow, but Tony and Tia send them up to join Victor and leave them for the police.
Some time later, Yoyo and the Earthquakes drop the siblings off at Rose Bowl Stadium to wait for Uncle Bene. Tia explains that without them, the van won't run, so she and Tony meticulously restore the van with their powers. With the minibus as good as new, the Board of Education no longer has a reason to fire Yoyo, especially if the Rocky, Muscles, Crusher, and Dazzler go to school, which they agree to. Tony and Tia levitate themselves and the gang over the fence to the stadium, and they say goodbye to the boys. They meet Uncle Bene at the UFO, and when asked how their vacation went and why they are missing their luggage, Tony suggests they go surfing next time instead.
The Earthquakes climb back over the fence and go with Yoyo, and catch a glimpse of the flying saucer on it's way home.