This movie is not what it seems. Ringo, having accepted a ring from a fan, unwittingly becomes the target sacrifice of an eastern cult. Attempting to rid themselves of this deadly jewelry, the Fab Four encounter Mad Scientists, Scotland Yard, the entire complement of the Nassau police force and one wayward long distance swimmer. As the plot is only a device upon which a great deal of happy nonsense is draped, its actually the least important part of the film. I can say no more.An exotic religious cult led by a pompous leader Clang (Leo McKern) in the middle of its annual sacrificing of a young nymph to the god Kieli, realize that the girl is not wearing the sacrificial ring, and lo and behold it's on the finger of Ringo Starr. A mission is put into place immediately to recover the ring, or at least to sacrifice the person wearing it so that the god awaiting the sacrifice will not be insulted. Thus begins the exploits of Help in which a crazed group bent on satiating its god's sacrificial hunger stalks John, Paul, George and Ringo with various sharp instruments. The main goal of the Beatles is to remove the ring from Ringo's finger and return it to the cult, thus avoiding death. One of the members of the cult, Ahme (Eleanor Bron) is attracted to the Fab Four, Paul in particular, and works to sabotage the efforts of the religious cult. Time after time the cult attempts to capture Ringo only to be thwarted either by the band's elusive nature or by the cult's own inept efforts. When the Fab Four seeks help from a delusional scientist, Professor Foot (Victor Spinetti), he desires the ring because its power will give him power to "rule the world", and escape the bane of government grants to conduct his research. Moving on to Scotland Yard a police inspector (Patrick Cargill) filled with his own importance sets a trap for the cult, but they manage to capture Ringo anyway and establish a makeshift beach side sacrificial area with the help of their own country's militia. As the Fab Four flee from England to Austria, to the Bahamas there's always time for a musical number.