Riley is a girl born in Minnesota. Five emotions live inside her head. They are responsible for her actions and make her memories. The memories are kept as balls. They each give a different color depending on the emotion of the memory. The most important memories are core memories that power islands of personality. They reflect a different aspect of Riley's life. Joy makes Riley happy. Fear keeps her safe. Disgust prevents her from being poisoned, physically and socially. Anger makes her life fair. Sadness however, doesn't seem to have a purpose. She's ignored as a result.Riley turns eleven. Her parents move to San Francisco. Sadness has a magical touch. When she touches a memory, it turns sad and blue, and it can't be changed back to what it was before. Joy forbids Sadness from touching any more memories until she finds out what's going on. The first day at the new school, Joy has Sadness stand inside a circle so she can't spread her gloominess. Riley talks about her life in Minnesota. Joy brings up a memory and has it played on a projector in Riley's head. Sadness wanders outside her circle and touches the memory, turning it sad. While the emotions are trying to remove the memory from the projector, Sadness takes control of the console, making Riley cry in front of her classmates. A new core memory is created. This core memory is sad and blue. Riley's only had happy core memories before. Joy sees sad memories as a bad thing. She tries to get rid of it. Sadness tries to stop her, saying it's a core memory. In their struggle, all the core memories are knocked from the holder they're kept in. Joy, Sadness and the core memories are sucked up the tube, into the far depths of Riley's mind.Joy and Sadness are in Long Term Memory, a labyrinth of corridors of shelves of memories. They meet Riley's former imaginary friend Bing Bong, who's desperate to reconnect with Riley. He says the Train of Thought can take them back to Headquarters. Their journey takes them through Abstract Thought and Imagination Land. Parts of Preschool World are being demolished, Princess Dream World and the Stuffed Animal Hall of Fame. Mind workers are taking Bing Bong's song-powered rocket to the Memory Dump, a deep pit where obsolete memories are erased. A plow pushes the rocket into the dump. Bing Bong is really upset over the loss of his rocket. He's completely unresponsive when Joy tries to cheer him up. Sadness listens to what Bing Bong has to say. He and Riley had great adventures together. They were best friends. It's sad. Bing Bong hugs Sadness. He cries candy. He's okay now. He continues to take the emotions to the train station. Joy wonders how did Sadness do that?In Headquarters, Fear, Anger and Disgust try to take charge in Joy's absence. They're unable to make Riley happy. Dinner ends in disaster. The father sends Riley to her room for her rude, disrespectful behavior. Later that evening, the father can't cheer Riley up with his monkey noises. Riley dumps her best friend and quits hockey. Goofball Island, Friendship Island and Hockey Island fall into the Memory Dump. Anger comes up with the idea: Riley's happy core memories were made in Minnesota. The only way for her to be happy is to return there and make more.Joy, Sadness and Bing Bong are on the Train of Thought. Unfortunately, the train does not run while Riley's asleep. They enter Dream Productions. Joy's idea is to wake Riley up with exhilaration, excite her awake. A dog costume, Joy is in the front. Sadness is in the back. Bing Bong lets down a brightly colored curtain and balloons. The dog costume is ripped in half, but due to the reality distortion filter, it looks as if a real dog has split in two in the dream. Despite all this, Riley stays asleep. Security men capture Bing Bong and take him to the Subconscious, a place where they keep Riley's deepest, darkest fears. Bing Bong is trapped in a cage of balloons, on the belly of a giant, sleeping birthday clown named Jangles. Joy frees Bing Bong. Before they leave, Joy and Sadness wake up Jangles who chases them into Dream Productions. Fear is on dream duty. The sight of Jangles really scares him and wakes up Riley. The train is running again.Bing Bong picks out a memory. It's the time in the twisty tree. Mom and Dad and the hockey team are cheering Riley. Sadness loves this memory too. "It was the day the Prairie Dogs lost the big playoff game. Riley missed the winning shot. She felt awful. She wanted to quit."Anger carries out his idea to run away. Riley is led to steal her mother's credit card to pay for her travel expenses. Honesty Island crumbles. The crumbling island bashes into the railway line of the Train of Thought. The train crashes against Long Term Memory. Mind workers rescue Joy, Sadness and Bing Bong from the train, before it falls into the Memory Dump. The three characters find a recall tube. When Sadness tries to get in the tube, the core memories start to turn blue. Joy thinks Riley should be happy. She closes the tube and starts to get sucked up, leaving Sadness and Bing Bong behind. As Long Term Memory crumbles and breaks away, the recall tube shatters. Joy and Bing Bong fall into the Memory Dump.Joy finds the sad core memory. She looks back over Riley's obsolete memories. She just wanted Riley to be happy. She picks up the twisty tree memory and rewinds it to find it's sad at the beginning. Sadness' words echo "It was the day the Prairie Dogs lost the big playoff game. Riley missed the winning shot. She felt awful. She wanted to quit." Mom and Dad and the team, they came to help because of Sadness. Joy and Bing Bong find the song-powered rocket. They try to use it to escape the dump, but the rocket falls short each time. The third time they power up the rocket, Bing Bong gets out of the rocket at the last second, allowing Joy to escape the dump. Bing Bong thanks Joy for letting him be important one last time, before fading away. In Headquarters, the emotions discover running away was a bad idea. Family Island, the last remaining island starts to break apart and fall. The console starts to shut itself down and become inactive. Riley becomes completely unresponsive to the emotions' commands. They can't make Riley feel anything. They're also unable to remove the idea bulb to run away.Joy looks around for Sadness, but Sadness now believes her actions only hurt Riley. She's floating around on a rain cloud. The imaginary boyfriend generator, imaginary boyfriend says he would die for Riley. It's time for him to prove it. Joy has the machine make lots of copies of imaginary boyfriends. She unties a balloon and lets the air out, blowing it towards Sadness so her cloud floats towards Headquarters. Joy builds a ladder of imaginary boyfriends. She's standing on top of the ladder. She lets the ladder fall down. She bounces off a Family Island trampoline. She's flying through the air over the Memory Dump. She grabs Sadness. The two emotions hit against the window of Headquarters. Anger throws a chair at the window. The window does not break. Disgust provokes Anger so that he gets really angry. He's the Anger emotion. When he's really angry, fire bursts from his head. Disgust uses his flaming head to burn a hole in the window and let Joy and Sadness in.Sadness is magically able to remove the idea bulb, so Riley comes home. Joy allows Sadness to touch the core memories so they all turn sad. She allows Sadness to play the sad memories in the projector in Riley's head. Sadness takes control of the console. A tearful Riley admits she misses Minnesota. She wants her old friends and her hockey team. The parents need her to be happy, but she wants to go home. The parents are not angry. They miss Minnesota too, the woods where they took hikes, the backyard where she used to play and Spring Lake where she learned to skate. The parents hug Riley deeply. Sadness takes Joy's hand and they both press a button together. A new core memory is created. This core memory is yellow and blue, happy and sad.Sadness has finally found a place to work alongside her fellow emotions. They have a new expanded console. The core memories are a mixture of emotions now. Riley has new friends and a new house. She's twelve now. What could happen?