Mari Collingwood (Sandra Cassel) plans to celebrate her 17th birthday by attending a rock concert in New York City with her friend, Phyllis Stone (Lucy Grantham). Her parents express concern both at the band Bloodlust and Mari's friendship with Phyllis, who is implied to be of a lower social class. They let her go, however, and give her a gift before she leaves: a peace symbol necklace.On the way to the city in the Colingwood's car, Mari and Phyllis are listening to loud music (a song that says, "The road leads to nowhere...") when there is a a radio report of a recent prison break, involving criminals named Krug Stillo (David A. Hess), serving life sentence for murder of a priest and two nuns, and Krug's cousin and partner-in-crime Fred "Weasel" Podowski (Fred J. Lincoln), a child molester. They've been helped in their escape by Krug's girlfriend Sadie (JERAMIE RAINE aka Susan Davies) who has kicked a police-dog to death, and Junior Stillo (MARC SHEFFLER), a drug addict and Krug's son.Upon arrival in the city, Mari and Phyllis stroll the streets, seeking someone who might sell marijuana. Eventually, they run into Junior, who leads them back to Sadie's apartment, where the two teenage girls are entrapped by the criminals. Phyllis resists, is punched in the stomach and gang raped by Krug and Weasel, as Mari watches in horror.Mari's parents, meanwhile, were preparing a surprise party for her - but next morning, they tell the two bumbling police officers about her disappearance, but they assure them that Mari is probably fine. The officers also disregard the gang's broken-down car when driving back to the police station..The next morning, the girls are locked in a car trunk and driven to the countryside as the gang intends to leave the state. The ' vehicle breaks down . Unable to get their car fixed, they drag the kidnapped girls into the wood. Removed from the trunk, Phyllis bites Krug's hand, and is beaten for it. Mari, bound and gagged, realizes that they are coincidentally right near her own home.In the woods, the girls are untied and subjected to several tortures. Phyllis is ordered to urinate into her own jeans, and refuses. After a beating, the second time Krug barks the order, he is obeyed, and she soaks her trousers. Next they tell her to hit Mari as hard as she can, but Junior is not into the violence, and suggests the girls should have sex together. Mari and Phyllis are ordered to strip naked and play around with each other. Krug soon becomes bored however, and tells Weasel to look after things while he goes to the car to fetch "something to cut some firewood with".At the police station, the Sheriff (Marshall Anker) and the Deputy (Martin Kove) eventually realize their mistake in disregarding the car in front of the Collingwood's home and set out back. Their car breaks down on the way, because the Deputy had not refueled the patrol car. The cops unsuccessfully try to hitch a ride first with a group of hippies, then with Ada (Ada Washington), an old black woman chicken farmer.Sadie sexually molests Mari. After the girls get their clothes back, Phyllis whispers to Mari she will make a break for it to distract the kidnappers, offering Mari an opportunity to escape. Phyllis takes off, chased by Sadie and Weasel, while Junior stays behind to guard Mari, who makes a desperate attempt to convince the troubled addict that he doesn't need to listen to his abusive father because Dr. Collingwood, her father, can help him instead. She also gives him her peace symbol necklace as proof of her trust.Phyllis runs into the woods. Weasel falls, and Sadie catches Phyllis, they go down on the ground, but the fugitive strikes Sadie on the head with a piece of rock without a fight. Phyllis runs away again and arrives at a small cemetery, overlooking the main road - but then Krug cuts her way, holding a machete. As she backs away from him, Weasel with a flick-blade and Sadie, cut her way. Weasel stabs her in the back. The girl attempts to crawl away, but the gang keeps kicking her down. She stumbles down a slope, but inevitably the gang catches up with her. Phyllis spits on Weasel's face. Krug holds her up from behind by the armpits, and Weasel stabs her several times. Sadie enjoys the scene, takes his knife, rips down Phyllis' trousers first, and then her belly, grabbing and pulling off the intestines.When Mari eventually convinces Junior to let her go, the gang is already back. Mari asks for Phyllis, and Krug shows her Phyllis' severed hand. Mari screams in terror, Krug proceeds to carve his name into Mari's upper chest, then rapes her. Mari, sick from the shock, vomits, and then walks in a daze to the nearby lake - holding her clothes, but as nude as she was. The gang watches in amusement. Krug shoots at Mari with a small pistol, and her body falls into the lake, then floats on the water.Seemingly shocked by the death of their last hostage, the gang of four wash up and change out of their bloody clothes. They show up at the nearest house, the Collingwood's home, masquerading as traveling salesmen. Dr. William Collingwood (Gaylord James) and his wife Estelle (Cynthia Carr) feed them and offer shelter for the night. Junior's heroin withdrawal symptoms cause him to end up vomiting in the bathroom, where Estelle attends to him - and sees Mari's necklace dangling around his neck. Later that night she listens in on the gang while they are talking about murders, and next she finds the blood-soaked clothing in their luggage. The Collingwoods rush out into the woods, only to find Mari's body by the lake, dead. [Goof: her body was in the lake, and could not get ashore by itself.]Estelle dupes Weasel into a sex game outdoors, near the lake, promising a fellatio to orgasm while he has his hands tied behind his back. but concludes it by biting off the criminal's genitals. Weasel collapses in agony, as Estelle vomits by the lake.Inside the house, Dr. Collingwood carries his shotgun into his daughter's bedroom, where two of the criminals are sleeping. Krug turns out the lights, and gets grazed on the arm by the shotgun blast. Krug escapes into the living-room and overpowers the doctor in a one-sided fist fight- Krug is then confronted by his own son, who now brandishes a firearm. Junior threatens to kill his father. However, Krug psychologically manipulates the troubled young man, and Junior commits suicide with the weapon. Krug notices that Dr. Collingwood is missing, and goes searching for him.The doctor is coming from the basement with a battery powered chain-saw, and attacks Krug with it. Krug fires the shotgun, only to discover it has no bullets. It's a long hide and seek fight, in which most furniture is destroyed.Meanwhile, Sadie runs outside to escape, in the darkness she trips in the yard and drops her open flick-blade. Estelle tackles Sadie, and after a struggle, Sadie punches Estelle but trips once again and falls into the family's swimming pool, screaming. Estelle grabs the blade that was used on her daughter's to torture her, and runs to the swimming pool. Just in time to catch Sadie standing up from the steps out of the pool. She slits her throat, and Sadie falls back dead into the pool.Dr. Collingwood continues approaching Krug with the chainsaw, as the Sheriff arrives and pleads with the doctor not to go through, but the grieving father murders Krug with the chainsaw anyway by beheading him.Weasel lays by the lake's edge having bled to death; Sadie is floating face down in the pool; Junior in the house beside a wall with the back of his head blown out; and the beheaded Krug lays seated on the floor against a wall.The shaken and exhausted couple reunites in their living room in their blood-spattered clothes as the Sheriff looks at them.