In a college computer lab run by Professor Kaufman, two of his students, Eric Staufer and Bill McLemore, are working when a virtual creature - the Phantom Virus - emerges from a new game based on the Mystery Gang's past adventures and tries to attack. The next day, Mystery, Inc. themselves come to the college and learn from their friend Eric that the virus had assumed a lifelike form thanks to an experimental laser able to transmit objects into cyberspace, and is now running rampant across the campus. The gang goes on the hunt for the Phantom Virus, leading to it chasing Scooby and Shaggy throughout the campus. Unfortunately, the whole gang, including the virus, is banished to the game after an unknown person activates the laser. Left with no other choice, the gang fight their way through the ten levels of mystery and adventures to complete the game in order to escape it, with the goal of finding a box of Scooby Snax to complete each level. The Phantom Virus, meanwhile, attempts to impede their efforts on each level.After a while, they finally reach the game's tenth and final level, which is in a huge city, where they meet their virtual counterparts who resemble themselves from previous series, with the exception of Scooby. They team up to confront the Phantom Virus, who wreaks havoc across the final level and summons his henchmen - five villains from the gang's past: the Creeper, Jaguaro, Gator Ghoul, the Tar Monster, and Old Iron Face. To make matters worse, all the monsters are real. The climax takes the two gangs to an amusement park, where they fight off the creatures and attempt to retrieve the last box of Scooby Snax. During the fight, they use magnets to fight the virus, whom they discover is severely weakened by magnetic forces. Cyber-Scooby distracts the virus long enough for the real Scooby to retrieve the Scooby Snax, winning the game and deleting the monsters and the Phantom Virus once and for all.The real gang bids farewell to their virtual selves and head home. Back in the lab, the gang reveals that they figured out the culprit, who turns out to be Bill (due to the Phantom Virus making baseball references throughout their adventure, and Bill was a huge baseball fan). Bill is arrested by Officer Wembley and confesses that he created the virus to scare Eric away and take all the credit for inventing the laser. He was outraged when Kaufman chose Eric's video game design over his baseball-themed video game, despite being at the college two years longer than Eric, and he felt more deserving to win the prize money at the university's science fair. Fearing Mystery Inc. would expose him as the Virus' creator, he sent them into the game believing they would never get out. Kaufman protests that students are all equal as he is taken away. The gang and Eric play the new Scooby-Doo game, during which Scooby interacts with the gang's virtual counterparts once again by feeding Cyber-Scooby some Scooby Snax.The post-credits scene includes the gang telling the audience what their favorite parts of the movie were.