In the opening scene, Agatha Weiss (Mia Wasikowska) arrives in Los Angeles and employs limousine driver Jerome Fontana (Robert Pattinson) to take her to the site of the former house of child star Benjie Weiss. Agatha has severe burns to her face and body, and is seen taking a copious amount of medication.Meanwhile, Benjie (Evan Bird) is visiting a little girl, named Cammy, who is suffering from non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the local hospital in Beverly Hills. However, the girl later dies right after Benjie leaves the hospital.Benjie's father, Dr. Stafford Weiss (John Cusack), is a TV reality-show psychologist who is treating aging actress Havana Segrand (Julianne Moore) for the sexual abuse she suffered at the hands of her recently deceased mother, also an actress. Havana's agent, Genie, struggles to get Havana a role in a remake of her mother's film 'Stolen Waters'. Havana routinely hallucinates about the deceased younger version of her mother.Benjie and his mother, Cristina Weiss (Olivia WIlliams), negotiate a role for Benjie in a film as his comeback after a stint in drug rehabilitation.At the suggestion of Carrie Fisher (playing herself), Havana hires Agatha, whom she had met on Twitter, as a personal assistant. Agatha continues to see Jerome, and a romance forms, though Jerome appears resistant at first.Stafford learns through Havana that Agatha has returned to Los Angeles, and it is revealed Agatha is actually Stafford and Cristina's daughter however, they shun her completely, with Cristina breaking down at the thought of Agatha contacting her brother Benjie.Using Havana's role in 'Stolen Waters' to gain access to the studio production lot, Agatha visits Benjie on set and it is revealed that she is a clinically diagnosed schizophrenic, and that the burns she suffered were from a fire she lit in her parents' house while they were asleep. Agatha indicates to Benjie that she has just returned from a sanatorium to make amends. When Stafford learns Agatha visited Benjie, he visits her in a rage and warns her to leave L.A.Benjie breaks his sobriety, getting high on GHB, and accidentally shoots the dog of his only friend.Agatha visits her mother, Cristina, to make amends. It is revealed here that Cristina and Stafford are brother and sister.... making both Agatha and Benjie children of incest.... though Cristina insists it was unbeknownst to them at the time. Stafford comes home, and when Agatha reveals she knows about their familial relations, Stafford violently beats her, until Cristina intervenes. During the altercation, Agatha steals Cristina's wedding ring.On set, Benjie is haunted by the girl from the hospital, and, during a hallucination, he strangles his young co-star, Roy. The child survives, though Benjie is fired and now to be replaced in the film.Havana requests Jerome as a driver and seduces him in the driveway of her house, as Agatha watches from the window. Havana enters the house and berates Agatha for her poor performance at work and then verbally humiliates her when she finds that the girl has stained her expensive couch with menstrual blood. Agatha gorily beats Havana to death with one of her awards.A little later that same night, Stafford returns home to see Cristina on fire outside near the pool. Though not explicitly stated, it is suggested this is an act of self-immolation after the series of traumatic events leading to Cristina's depressed state. Benjie goes home, finding his father in a catatonic state and steals his ring. He then reunites with Agatha and the siblings/cousins perform an impromptu wedding ceremony in the back yard with their parents' wedding rings. In order to commit suicide, they take an extreme amount of Agatha's pills together, before lying down to watch the stars.