Daniel Ocean (George Clooney), a convicted thief, is being questioned by a parole board about his upcoming release from prison and the chances of him breaking the law again. The board implies they know Danny has been involved in several other robberies, confidence schemes and fraud cases, although he was never officially accused or charged, which Danny simply confirms that he was indeed never charged. When asked why he committed this particular crime or why he was caught this time, Danny claims the reason for his crime was that his ex-wife left him, and he spiraled out of control. The board then asks him what he would do if released from prison. Danny simply stares at them but doesn't answer the question.Ocean is released from his New Jersey prison and goes to an Atlantic City casino to meet with an old friend, Frank Cotton (Bernie Mac) who works there as a blackjack dealer. The two of them pretend not to know each other and use coded phrases to meet up later somewhere more private away from casino security. They talk about "him" and where to find "him". Frank asks Danny if he already has a job in mind to which Danny simply states that he just came out of prison.Next, he's off to Hollywood (breaking the terms of his parole, which require him to stay in New Jersey) to reunite with "him" who turns out to be his right-hand man Rusty Ryan (Brad Pitt). Rusty is bored out of his mind trying to teach teenage movie stars how to play real poker. Danny sneaks into their private game and, with a little help from Rusty, cons the stars into betting a lot of money on a hand Danny wins easily. They then move into a more private club where Danny reveals he has a job in mind which targets casino tycoon Terry Benedict (Andy Garcia). Benedict owns three Las Vegas casino-hotels: the Bellagio, the Mirage, and the MGM Grand. All three casinos share one vault, and Ocean plans to assemble a crew to empty that vault.Rusty is skeptical of Danny's plan but pledges his support and his valuable insight. Rusty questions Danny's reasons for the heist to which Danny provides a contrived and humorous speech. Together, they go over exactly what would be needed to pull the job and who they could get to finance the operation. They find their financier in their old friend, the flamboyantly wealthy Reuben Tishkoff (Elliott Gould) who just recently lost his own casino hotel to Terry Benedict, who's about to bomb it to build a new one. Reuben is not interested at first because he knows a lot about the outrageously tight security in casinos, having invented a lot of it himself, and deems the scheme unlikely to succeed. He changes his mind however when he learns the target is Benedict.With Reuben's financial backing secured, Danny and Rusty starts assembling the crew. Frank Cotton pulls some strings to get transferred to one of Benedict's casinos in Las Vegas to serve as an inside man. The Malloy brothers, Turk (Scott Caan) and Virgil (Casey Affleck), are a humorous pair of car enthusiasts from Utah recruited for transportation and multiple other skills. In charge of the electronics will be the the anxious and jumpy Livingston Dell (Eddie Jemison). Basher Tarr (Don Cheadle) is Danny and Rusty's top choice for demolition man, but his other project and subsequent arrest require Rusty to rescue him from the cops, which he does by impersonating an arrogant ATF agent. In San Diego they find their "greaseman" in Yen (Shaobo Qin), a circus acrobat. Rusty then meets up and convinces old-timer Saul Bloom (Carl Reiner) out of retirement in Florida.With 10 people already committed, Danny and Rusty agree they need an eleventh member. Danny goes to Chicago to recruit a young but highly skilled pickpocket named Linus Caldwell (Matt Damon), son of the infamous thief Bobby Caldwell who referred him to Danny without telling him it's his son. Danny is successful in hiring Linus.Everyone converges to Ruben's house in Las Vegas for their very first meeting where the whole plan will be discussed in details. Danny gives fair warning to everyone that the job could be extremely lucrative but also extremely dangerous and that if they join him inside the house, they are now officially part of the job and cannot back out. Everyone goes in except Linus who still appears reluctant until Reuben abruptly influences him to join everybody inside. Danny and Rusty proceeds to reveal the target and all the security measures they will have to deal with in order to pull the job. However, Danny believes they can grab over $150 million from Benedict's vault if they pull the job on the night of a big upcoming boxing match scheduled in two weeks.The team set up camp in one of the Bellagio suite and prepares to carry out the heist. They canvas the whole location to make sure they know everything there is to know. They tap into the surveillance system to have an eye on everything and everyone. They build an exact replica of the vault in a warehouse to familiarize themselves and practice parts of their plan, mostly for Yen to learn how to move inside the vault without triggering the alarm system which will be fully functional at this particular part of their plan.Saul impersonates an international arms dealer residing at the hotel and looking to ask Benedict for a favor. Under the pretense of wanting to stash some extremely valuable stones safely, Saul cons Benedict into offering to stash them into his casino vault. The stones in question are explosives created by Basher to look like valuable gems.Linus is assigned to shadowing Terry Benedict, much to his chagrin. He is excited to be included in the group but upset that, with all his skills, he is given little responsibility. During his surveillance of Benedict, Linus unknowingly reveals to Rusty something Danny had been keeping secret from everybody else so far, his true motive for pulling this job; Terry Benedict has a gorgeous girlfriend, Danny's ex-wife Tess (Julia Roberts).Rusty confronts Danny at the warehouse, where Danny admits that he knows about Terry and Tess dating and that his intention is to win her back. Rusty is understandably upset and threatens to abandon the project, fearing Danny may compromise the job to get his wife back. Danny assures him he has a very specific plan for Tess and the rest of the crew is not in jeopardy of losing their fair share of the score. At this point we see that Tess and Terry's relationship is a little bit awkward and distant.Danny surprises Tess at a restaurant and admits to her that he came to Vegas to take her back which makes her angry. But through their hostile interaction we can see that Tess and Danny are far more passionate and closer than Tess and Terry could ever be. They have a brief conversation before Terry shows up to join Tess for dinner completely unconcerned by Danny's intentions towards either his money or his girlfriend. We then find out that Linus is now tailing Danny.When Xanadu, Ruben's former hotel, is demolished through bombing, Basher brings the team some bad news when he finds out a weakness he was looking to exploit in the hotel's electrical system, will no longer be available due to the city's electrical engineers being now aware of that weakness and fixing it after the hotel lost power. As a solution, he offers to use an electrical pinch, a device that fries electrical circuitry by sending in a huge electromagnetic pulse. Plugging the device into one of the main city power lines would allow to turn off all power in Las Vegas for about 30 seconds which is all they need. The device in question however, is in California, which requires the team to make a detour. Danny, Basher, Yen, Linus and the Malloys take a van and drives to California. Linus is left in the van with the brothers which annoys him quickly. Unable to sit in anymore he goes inside to join Danny but Danny and the others have already grabbed the device and are exiting the building. They leave only to realize Linus is no longer with them. Linus is able to escape the building but not without getting chased by security. Upon leaving in a hurry, Yen's hand gets broken when the backdoor violently slams on it. Danny and the others are obviously frustrated by Linus' mistake and potential compromise of the job.Back at the hotel, Livingston is worried because Danny has been "red-flagged" by security and will now be watched wherever he goes in the hotel. With his anger and embarrassment boiling over, Linus reveals to everyone that Danny is after Tess and that is the reason he was caught, and Rusty confesses to Danny that he ordered Linus to watch him. With Danny now unable to take a step without being tracked, he is a liability and Rusty kicks him off the team. The responsibility of "triggering the vault" is given to Linus, a show of respect he had been dying for, but now that the task is actually conferred upon him, he is quite nervous.Fight night arrives and everything is set in motion. Yen is hidden inside one of the vault carts and is sneaked into the vault along with Saul's suitcase containing the explosive fake gems. To get close to the vault -- and also to keep Terry distracted -- Linus poses as an agent of the Nevada Gaming Commission who comes to Terry with evidence that the Bellagio is illegally employing a convicted criminal as a dealer. The criminal in question is their inside man Frank Cotton, who drags out the interrogation on purpose by accusing Linus of racism. During the altercation with Frank, Linus pickpockets the vault's security codes from Benedict. Terry is so eager to get back to his scheduled evening after this meeting that when, on the way out, Linus claims to have left something behind in the conference room, Terry leaves Linus to show himself out -- which of course he doesn't. Linus uses the codes to make his way to the vault elevator.Meanwhile, Danny meets up with Tess, claiming he will leave her alone and giving her one last kiss on the cheek before leaving. He then hangs out at the hotel's casino where he makes sure Benedict sees him. Benedict orders his thugs to teach Danny a lesson. The thugs lead Danny to a private backroom and leave him alone with a monstrous sized man to beat him up. The man happens to be a friend of Danny paid by him to pretend he is beating up Danny. The man throws himself around and makes a lot of noise so the thugs on the other side of the door believe Danny is being massacred. Danny actually sneaks into the hotel's air duct and makes his way to the vault's elevator shaft where he surprises Linus, revealing he and Rusty played Linus to give him the opportunity to play a key role.In the meantime, Rusty, Saul, Turk, and Virgil distract the vault monitors in the security headquarters by having Saul pretend to have a heart attack. While the monitors are distracted, Livingston taps into their computer system and have it display a video they shot in their vault's replica where all they see from then on is a peaceful vault with nothing going on inside. He also makes Linus disappear from the other cameras while he is heading to the vault.With everyone in position, Basher cuts power across the whole city by triggering the pinch. Danny and Linus break into the vault, with help from Yen waiting inside, all unseen by the video cameras. Rusty then calls Terry on a cell phone Danny planted on Tess to reveal that he is being robbed. Incredulous, Terry goes to his security center to find that nothing is happening, until the monitors switch back to the real live feed and show three men in the vault packing all the money into black duffer bags marked with X's.The robbers rig the money with explosives and split it into two parts. They threaten to blow up all the money unless Benedict lets them get away with half of it. Upon hearing this, Benedict calls 911 and asks for a S.W.A.T. team. Benedict complies with Rusty's demands knowing that the S.W.A.T. team is on the way. With half the money in the vault and half the money being driven away in a van, Benedict accepts his loss and focuses on catching the culprits by allowing the S.W.A.T. team to enter the vault under cover of darkness. S.W.A.T enters the vault and a confrontation ensues where the explosives are triggered, blowing up the money. Benedict goes down to the vault to assess the damages and angrily calls for S.W.A.T to leave the premises. Benedict then orders his men to retrieve the money from the van but learns the bad news that the van was blown up too. He is then surprised to find out the van was not carrying money but just fliers advertising prostitutes. Benedict then realizes he has been played. Through flashbacks, it is revealed that the video of the three men loading up the duffer bags inside the vault was also a video shot within the team's vault replica. Livingston had tapped into the hotel's phone network and intercepted the 911 call. The S.W.A.T team that responded was the rest of Ocean's crew coming down to help clear out the vault.
In the dark, the crew staged a confrontation while they were actually loading the real money into their gear bags. Benedict realizes that somebody made a duplicate of his vault, and that he just watched the S.W.A.T. team walk out with ALL of his money.Meanwhile, Tess is in her room, now fully aware that Danny is robbing her boyfriend when she receives a phone call to turn on her TV to a specific channel. The channel in question is the camera feed outside the backroom where Danny is supposedly getting beat up. Danny has slipped back into the room and allows the big man to give him a few real shots for looks. Terry goes in to confront Danny, assuming that he is somehow responsible. While never admitting anything, Danny asks Terry if he'd be willing to give up Tess in exchange for his money back, knowing full well Tess is now listening. Terry agrees without hesitating and Tess decides to leave. Danny then says he knows a guy and that he'll find out who took Benedict's money within 72 hours. Frustrated beyond belief, Terry gives Danny to the police and he is arrested for violating his parole. Tess meets Terry as she's leaving and lets him know she knows what just happened. She finds Danny before the police takes him away and promises to wait for him to come out of jail just as he planned. Everyone in the crew (minus Ocean), about $15 million richer, watches the dancing fountain show in front of the Bellagio to the music of Claire de Lune before leaving one by one all proud of what they just accomplished.Three to six months later, Danny is released from the same prison as earlier, only this time, Rusty is waiting for him with Tess in the car. Danny laughs at Rusty's old car when Rusty points out that Benedict's thugs are currently watching them. Danny joins Tess in the back of the car and Rusty drives them off, all unconcerned with Benedict's thugs following them.