Gregory Peck portrays the infamous Nazi, Dr. Josef Mengele, who, while hiding in South America, plans the beginning of the Fourth Reich with other Nazi sympathizers. Laurence Olivier portrays Ezra Lieberman, a famed Nazi hunter.Dr. Mengele's plan is to recreate the childhood of Hitler for the 95 young boys he cloned from Hitler. Lieberman first learns of the scheme through Barry Kohler, a young, lone Nazi hunter portrayed by Steve Guttenberg. Guttenberg's character is caught while relaying the information to Lieberman and is executed by the group of Nazis loyal to Dr. Mengele.As Lieberman uncovers the plot, the Nazi commanders become afraid of being found out and terminate the plan, to Mengele's anger and disappointment. Dr. Mengele will not accept defeat and goes on in an attempt to complete his project. On his quest, he and Lieberman finally confront each other in a battle to the death at the adoptive home of one of the teen-aged Hitlers.When the Hitler boy walks in on the two embattled old men, he must make a choice as to whom he wants to trust and help. All the Hitler clones have shown definite propensities towards art and ruthlessness. The boy decides to sick his vicious dogs on Mengele, who is mauled to death--much to the entertainment of the boy Hitler. Lieberman takes the opportunity to take the list of the 95 cloned boys from Mengele's pocket. The boy then decides to help Lieberman, who would bleed to death from his wounds from the fight, only after making a deal with him not to tell the police what he has done.In the final scene, Lieberman is recovering in a hospital when another young Nazi hunter, a friend of Kohler's, comes in wanting the list of all of the Nazi boys that Lieberman had found. He wants to hunt them down and terminate them. Lieberman, who had suffered in a death camp, refuses to give up the only remaining copy of the list, and burns it in front of the young man's eyes, stating that innocent children should not be murdered.In this movie appears Wolf Kahler who will later play Ludendorff, chemist and Fritz Shimon Haber's close friend in Haber (2008).