In 1850, Alejandro Murrieta (Antonio Banderas), now known as Don Alejandro De La Vega due to his marriage to nobleman Don Diego De La Vega's daughter Elena (Catherine Zeta-Jones), has been Zorro for almost ten years, helping out the people of California. It is now time for California to vote on whether or not to join the United States of America as its official 31st state. The voting is completed and the results are sealed in a box to be taken to the Governor but the box gets high jacked by gunman Jacob McGivens (Nick Chinlund) and his men who stands against the union. Luckily, Zorro appears and engages them in hot pursuit. The chase takes them to a bridge under construction where Zorro fights off McGivens and his men and succeeds in throwing them off the bridge and knocking out all of McGivens' teeth in the process. However, Alejandro in temporarily unmasked during the fight which allows two men that were observing the fight closely to identify him. He quickly makes a makeshift mask out of his attire and takes the ballot box to the Governor himself before retreating to his home.At home, Alejandro has a romantic evening with his wife who is so relieved that California is now free and her husband doesn't need to be Zorro anymore. The evening however is ruined when Alejandro suggests he remains Zorro for a few more months until everything is made official. Elena gets upset and realizes that Alejandro cannot let go of Zorro and will never retire. She argues that while Alejandro is out there being Zorro, he is missing out on their son Joaquin who's growing up fast. Just then, the church bell is heard, meaning Zorro is being called. Elena gives Alejandro an ultimatum that if he walks out of the house tonight, he cannot come back. Alejandro packs a suitcase and leaves.The very next day, Elena tries to explain to their son Joaquin what his father does for a living as a Don, but her explanation makes it sound not interesting at all to Joaquin who is starting to resent his father for not being more present and not being cool or adventurous like Zorro. She drops him at school and then goes to the local market where she notices two men spying on her. She lures them to a secluded area to beat them up until one pulls a gun on her. The two men reveals they know about Alejandro's secret identity and blackmail Elena into helping them with something. Meanwhile, Alejandro is playing cards with other Dons who are giving him bad advises about marriage. As he decides to leave and go beg Elena for forgiveness, an attorney walks up to him and serves him divorce papers from Elena.Three months later, the separation from Elena and the feeling that the people no longer need Zorro, are taking its toll on Alejandro who spends a lot of time miserably getting drunk. As he goes to pick up his son after school, he witnesses Joaquin picking up a fight with his teacher and escaping class a la Zorro. Alejandro tells Joaquin that fighting is not always a solution but Joaquin is not listening since he thinks his father never had a fight in his life and surely didn't fight to keep his family together. They meet one of Alejandro's friend Guillermo and his wife who are selling goods at the market to pay back Alejandro for a recent loan he provided. The friendly encounter is interrupted by Jacob McGivens who wants to purchase Guillermo's land deed for a railroad project. Guillermo refuses. McGivens insults Alejandro and challenges him to a fight, going as far as slapping him twice, but Alejandro refuses to fight in front of his son. McGivens leaves and Joaquin is ashamed of his father for not taking the fight to his bully.That night, Alejandro's friend, Frey Felipe, convinces him to attend a party at French Count Armand's (Rufus Sewell) new vineyard. There, Alejandro discovers that Elena is dating the count, an an old admirer from her time spent in Europe. Alejandro gets drunk and confronts Elena who slaps him in public. After leaving the party, Alejandro gets drunk further on his own but then witnesses a huge explosion close to Armand's mansion and becomes suspicious of him.The next day, Alejandro tries to warn Elena but gets roped into a game of Polo against Armand which turns into a jousting duel which Armand wins after Elena sabotages Alejandro's saddle. Alejandro then hears the call for Zorro and leaves, causing Felipe to pick up Joaquin after school which angers Joaquin.Jacob McGivens leads an attack on the family of Guillermo Cortez, Alejandro's friend, to seize their land deed. Donning his mask again, Zorro rescues Guillermo's wife and son, but fails to save Guillermo and the deed.That night, as Elena is having dinner with Armand, Zorro sneaks into Armand's mansion and uncovers a map revealing that the railroad project McGivens is working for is actually Armand building a track that would lead to his vineyard. He also overhears Armand and McGivens making plans about a shipment Armand wants McGivens to go pick up. Meanwhile, Elena is also sneaking around Armand's house and uncovers a secret message Armand received mentioning a positive explosive test and the words "Orbis Unum"(Latin for One World).The next day, while on a class trip, Joaquin recognizes McGivens and hitches a ride on his cart, to follow him. Things turn bad for him when is found by McGivens' men and he has to fight them off. He is almost killed when Zorro comes out of nowhere and fights off the men, saving Joaquin in the process. Examining the shipment, he finds that the cargo is multiple crates filled with bars of soap all labeled Orbis Unum. Zorro then speaks to his son in Spanish, pretending he doesn't know English yet so Joaquin will not recognize him. He is saddened to hear that his son truly believes that his father doesn't care about him.Upon researching the phrase Orbis Unum, Felipe and Alejandro learn that Armand is the head of a secret society called the Knights of Aragon, which has been secretly ruling Europe. The United States is deemed a threat to the Knights, so they plan to throw the country into chaos before it can gain too much power. Apparently their weapon of choice seems to be soap which confuses both Alejandro and Felipe.Meanwhile, Elena is on another date with Armand and accepts his marriage proposal. She then suggests that while Armand will be out tonight for a business meeting with some colleagues, she should make herself at home at his mansion and wait for him, offering the idea of spending the night together. Armand agrees. They then both part ways, not knowing that Joaquin witnessed the whole exchange.While walking down the street, Alejandro is captured by the men who blackmailed Elena into helping them. The two men introduces themselves as agents of the U.S government operative known as Pinkerton. They reveal that they suspected Armand of plotting against the U.S and bringing in a new kind of weapon with him. Since the U.S have no authority in California yet, they couldn't just handle the investigation themselves legally. So they blackmailed Elena into spying on Armand for them in exchange for keeping Zorro's identity a secret, knowing Armand had a huge crush on Elena. The divorce was meant to make Elena available again and keep Alejandro/Zorro away from their operation so Elena would not be compromised. They also disapprove Zorro's vigilante antics and consider him a relic of the past. Alejandro offers to help them out by revealing what he knows but then slams their heads against the metal bars of his jail, promising to give them hell if he ever gets the chance.As Elena leaves their home to get to Armand's, Joaquin sneaks out of the house and runs into town to find his father and tell him what his mom is about to do. Joaquin finds Alejandro in prison and tells him that he needs to go fight for his family right now if he wants to keep it. He then frees Alejandro from captivity, witnessing his father fighting for the first time and being impressed by his skills. Alejandro leaves Joaquin with Frey Felipe at church and goes to Armand's mansion as Zorro.Meanwhile, under pretense of arriving at Armand's mansion much too early, Elena sneaks into Armand's vineyard where he is having a secret meeting. She fights off a few guards on her own but when they become too many for her, Zorro appears and helps her defeat them. Alejandro then reveals he knows about the Pinkertons. The two argue but then reconcile with a passionate kiss. They eavesdrop on Armand's meeting with members of the Knights of Aragon. They learn that the soap bars are secretly used as an ingredient for nitroglycerin, which Armand plans to distribute throughout the Confederate army, with the help of Confederate Colonel Beauregard, to destroy the Union and weaken America.
The vineyard is actually a cover for turning the soap into nitroglycerin which they hide inside bottles of wine. Ferroq, Armand's servant, interrupts the meeting to warn Armand about a situation at home. Zorro overhears the exchange and sends Elena back to Armand's home before she is compromised while he sets up a booby trap for the train and all the nitro to explode. Elena makes it back in time but gets made anyway when it turns out that Ferroq has already found and killed the Pinkertons and told everything to Armand.Meanwhile, McGivens arrives at Felipe's church to look for Zorro. When he finds one of the Orbis Unum soap bars, he gets mad at Felipe for lying, shoots the priest and kidnaps Joaquin.Armand confronts Elena, and takes her and Joaquin hostage on the train carrying the explosives, causing Zorro to run out of hiding to disarm his own booby trap. Zorro is captured and unmasked in front of his son. Armand, surprised, takes Joaquin and Elena away and orders McGivens to kill Alejandro as soon as the train leaves the station. Alejandro fights off his captors and is joined in the fight by Felipe, having been saved from McGivens's bullet by the metal cross he always wears under his tunic. McGivens is then killed when a nitro drop falls on his face and explodes.Zorro catches up with Armand's train, and they engage in a sword fight. Elena has Joaquin escape into the back cars of the train, which she disconnects. Elena fights Ferroq in the nitro storage car and throws him and a bottle of nitro out of the car and at the feet of Colonel Beauregard at their prearranged meeting point, killing them. Further along the tracks, the governor prepares to sign the bill to make California a Union state. Joaquin collects Tornado, Zorro's horse, jumps off the train, and overtakes it. He hits a track switch, causing the train to harmlessly pass around the ceremony. Zorro and Armand's duel takes them to the very front of the train engine. Seeing the track is a dead end, Zorro breaks one of Armand's arm and then hooks Armand to the train by tying him up on the front of the engine. He then grabs Elena and whips them both away from the train. The train crashes into the pile of rails at the end of the track, setting off the nitroglycerin, killing Armand and blowing up the train.With Zorro as an official witness, the governor signs the bill, and California becomes the 31st state of the United States of America. Felipe remarries Alejandro and Elena, and Alejandro apologizes to his son for hiding his identity, admitting that Zorro's identity is a family secret rather than just his own. With Elena's blessing, Zorro gets called away from his wedding ceremony and rides off on Tornado to his next adventure.