Tako, advertising director of Pacific Pharmacuticals, is watching the educational documentary series that their company is sponsoring, Miracle Series. Bored by the program, Tako calls on his assistant Obayashi and discusses the show's low viewership. The program then reports on a U.N. submarine called the Seahawk that is being sent to the Artic to investigate a mysterious rise in temperature. The submarine crew spots an iceberg emitting a strange blue lights that resembles Chekhov radiation.A commercial for Pacific Pharmaceutical's Pashin is seen as Kinzaburo Furue spots his fellow TV employee, Osamu Sakurai, playing the drums. Furue tells Sakurai that they are being instructed to lift their TV ratings as the pair meets up with Tako. They discuss with the company botanist as Tako inquires about the story of a mammoth spirit that is said to inhabit the South Seas Island of Faro. Tako believes that the story has punch and will hook TV viewers. Concerned about their rival company, Tako wants to send Sakurai and Furue on an expedition to Faro Island. Later that night, Sakurai has dinner with his sister Fumiko and talks with her boyfriend Kazuo Fujita. Kazuo shows Sakurai the super strong wire he's invented as he's about to set sail to test his invention. They read up on the Seahawk's expedition which has collided with the iceberg.Back at Pacific Pharmacuticals, the company prepares a farewell party for Sakurai and Furue as the pair comments on Tako's slavish obsession with TV ratings. They meet up with Fumiko and her friend Tamie while Tako prepares a press conference. However, all of the reporters have left as Tako is informed of a breaking story. The Seahawk has been attacked.Sakurai and Furue arrive on Faro Island and get captured by the natives. The pair bargain with the native chief by offering a radio and cigarettes. The chief agrees to let them stay, but takes no responsibility if their monster god eats them. With Furue worried about his lack of life insurance, a thunderstorm forms as a monstrous roar is heard. A helicopter is sent to search for the Seahawk. As the pilots arrive to the iceberg, they witness it crumble as Godzilla emerges from it. Godzilla then proceeds to attack a nearby military base as the Japanese Defense Agency is alerted. The news of Godzilla's reappearance saturates the media, with Tako frustrated that Godzilla is stealing publicity away from his own exploits. As Tako is complaining, his employees inform him that a movie is being made and Godzilla themed food is being sold in restaurants. Frustrated, Tako has a telegram sent to Faro Island.On Faro Island, Sakurai and Furue are alerted about Godzilla's appearance as they head further into the island in search of the mammoth spirit. They are startled by a thunderous roar and a landslide that forces the expedition back. Back at the native village, Furue develops a fever as an native boy is sent to get some berry juice as medicine. A giant octopus soon attacks the village causing Sakurai to arm himself with Furue confusing the octopus for Mr. Tako. Everyone attempts to repel the monster when the mammoth spirit, King Kong, finally arrives. The octopus is quickly defeated by Kong who then proceeds to drink some of the berry juice. Kong falls asleep inebriated as the natives celebrate. Sakurai and Furue decide to build a large raft and haul Kong back to Japan. Back at Pacific Pharmaceuticals, Tako is celebrating all the publicity King Kong's capture is generating. As he prepares to fly out and see the beast, his employees begin to wonder which monster is stronger, King Kong or Godzilla. Obayashi scoffs at the idea, claiming it's not a wrestling match. Tako overhears this and expresses his approval of the idea, realizing the marketability potential of pitting King Kong against Godzilla.Tako arrives on the ship transporting Kong to Japan and discusses his plans to create ads with Kong to sell their product. A Japanese destroyer arrives to warn Tako that Kong cannot enter Japan and that he is being suspected of smuggling. Kazuo arrives from his trip and meets with Tamie. He learns that Fumiko has boarded a train in search of him. Kazuo races off to rescue Fumiko as Godzilla attacks the expressway she's on. Kazuo rescues Fumiko as Godzilla continues his rampage through Japan. Back on the ship, Kong begins to wake up as Sakurai attempts to let go of Kong by detonating bombs wired to the monsters' raft. Tako tries to stop him as Sakurai and Furue fire their rifles and successfully blow up the raft. However, Kong survives and makes his way towards Japan. Kong meets up with Godzilla in the Nasu area as Tako, Sakurai, and Furue try to avoid the JSDF and observe the confrontation. Godzilla and Kong roar defiantly at one another as Kong hurls massive boulders at his opponent. Godzilla retaliates with his atomic breath and forces Kong to retreat in a bemused state.The JSDF begin their countermeasures against Godzilla and Kong. After they fail to trap and blowup Godzilla in a giant pit, they complete their efforts to setup high-tension wires around Tokyo as a defense. The electric barrier is charged with a million volts of electricity and successfully manages to deter Godzilla. Kong on the other hand manages to break through the barrier and feed on the electricity by storing it like a battery. Tako and his men look on as he nearly gets into a fistfight over an argument of Kong being stronger than Godzilla. As Kong rampages through Tokyo, he halts a train and kidnaps Sakurai's sister Fumiko. With Fumiko in hand, Kong scales the National Diet Building as Kazuo screams helplessly. Sakurai and Tako then develop an idea to use the berry juice in bombs to knock Kong out. The JSDF explode capsules full of the berry juice as Sakurai uses his drum skills to successfully render Kong unconscious and save Fumiko. It is then suggested to pit Kong against Godzilla again. Tako approves of the plan until he realizes their intent is for the monsters to kill each other. The JSDF speculate how to transport Kong with Sakurai interjecting that Kazuo's strong wire can be used. The JSDF agrees as an airlift is prepared and transports Kong to Mount Fuji.The next morning, the transport reaches Mount Fuji as Godzilla is spotted below. King Kong is dropped right on top of Godzilla as the rematch between the two monsters begins. Kong attempts to surprise Godzilla before he's forced to grappled with the atomic beast. The two monsters tussle down the slop of Mount Fuji before Kong slips and knocks himself unconscious. As Godzilla kicks boulders into Kong's face, the ape attempts to attack but is knocked out by a kangaroo kick from Godzilla. Sakurai and Kazuo observe from their helicopter as they notice a thunderstorm arriving. Sakurai is pleased since the lightning will empower Kong with electricity, an ability Kazuo likens to Popeye eating spinach. Empowered by a bolt of lightning, Kong proceeds to beat Godzilla down as the ape gains the upper hand. Kong manages to force a tree down Godzilla's throat and tosses the monster over his shoulder. The beasts continue their battle as Tako arrives to see the outcome.Both monsters make their way to the coast and arrive at Atami Castle, a tourist trap which they then proceed to tear apart. They then plunge into the ocean and generate a small earthquake. Everyone looks on as Kong is the only monster to surface. They speculate on Godzilla's fate as Tako reluctantly agrees to let Kong swim back to Faro. Victorious, Kong begins his long journey home.