Tanner is a comic book nerd and one of only two gay people (that he knows of) at North Gateway High School. Based on the license plates, this is somewhere in New Jersey. Tanner's best friend Brent is obviously gay and he is ready to come out, but Tanner is not. Brent wants to be a Gay Best Friend (G.B.F.), something that is trendy. Tanner and Brent hang out with Glenn, who is straight or at least believes he is, and Sophie, who hates everyone but is nice to her friends and has long hair that is several different colors below her shoulders. Glenn and Sophie both work for the school newspaper.There are three popular girls at this school which Brent wants to be G.B.F. for. Fawcett is blonde and always wins best hair. Ashley, who is called 'Shley, is a Mormon and always happy, though she points out the sins of others while not being perfect herself. Caprice is African-American and gets the big roles in dramas and in chorus. All three girls seem shallow and think they are better than everyone else.The school has a Gay-Straight Alliance which helps gays but has no actual gay members, though Braxton has two mommies. Without gay members, the group must disband. Soledad is given the task of finding gay members to join, though no one is aware of any gays at the school. Soledad knows of an app that can help.Tanner and Brent go up to his room, and Brent's mom is perfectly happy to let them do what she thinks they are doing. Brent has never come out to her, but it's obvious to everyone. Brent puts the app Soledad is using on Tanner's phone so he can meet other gays.Brent's plan backfires when not only does someone else borrow Tanner's phone, but the phone is taken away by a teacher. Soledad uses the app and with GPS is able to track the phone to the teacher's desk. Tanner is outed, much to his dismay. He is so mad at Brent that they are no longer friends, though Brent would still like to be. He also parts ways with the rest of the friend group.Tanner is threatened by the jocks, who think he is always looking at them in a certain way., But the three popular girls, wanting to be trendy, all want Tanner as their G.B.F., and Tanner goes along because being with the girls protects him. In particular, Tanner is bullied by Fawcett's ex Hamilton. Although the three girls don't like each other, they pretend to be friendly so they can hang out with Tanner.Tanner spends time with each of the three girls. With Fawcett, he discovers she is actually nice and just puts on a front around others. She offers to help him with chemistry. Yes, that's right. The comic book nerd is not good at science, but she is. She already develops hair care products and wants to make a living doing that.When Tanner spends time with 'Shley, she has a boyfriend Topher. However, when 'Shley is not around Topher appears to be attracted to Tanner, and knowing he will soon go on his two-year mission as all young Mormon men must, and that he will marry 'Shely and have children, he wants to take advantage of this chance.Caprice wants Tanner to perform in "The Wiz" but he has no talent. Caprice wonders what kind of gay person is he?Brent won't do anything because he is so miserable but his mom persuades him to watch gay movies, which is an actual category offered by Webflix, which sends out DVDs in envelopes.Tanner becomes very popular and is actually a candidate for prom king. Through that app, he meets Christian at a wild party, and he later wants to go to prom with Christian. Also at the party, 'Shley gets drunk and seduces Glenn thinking he is gay so it won't count. Tanner leaves the party and meets Brent, who has been miserable since the incident. Since both are drunk they end up in bed together but neither remembers if they actually did anything.Wanting to go to prom with Christian, Tanner tries to sign up, but the very Christian McKenzie, who is even more uptight and judgmental than 'Shley, won't allow two boys to buy tickets. Soon, Fawcett has organized an alternative prom, although she too is restricting who can go to it at first. McKenzie, Topher and others start protests, and things get so nasty, Principal Rowe cancels the prom, leaving the alternative prom as the only choice.Tanner goes to the prom with Fawcett, though he spends time with Christian. Tanner and Fawcett are named Prom King and Prom Queen, and while Brent has planned a "Carrie"-style prank with glitter, something tanner hates, he can't go through with it and pushes Tanner out of the way when the glitter falls. And Brent is outed. Also, Christian and Topher end up together,