Jack and Marion are 35 years old and in a relationship. He is an interior designer and she is a photographer. Jack, however, has been taking most of the photos on their vacation. Marion speaks several languages but Jack knows only a few words of French.The couple has spent time in Italy and are on their way back home to New York City where they live, but they are going to spend two days in Paris where Marion grew up.The couple need a taxi and a lot of people are waiting for one. Most of them are Americans going to the Louvre. Jack has an idea. He pretends to be nice but what he does is really mean. He gives them directions that make it appear the Louvre is in walking distance, and while they are very appreciative, Jack has no idea where the Louvre is and they will do a lot of walking for nothing.The first of five memorable taxi drivers picks them up and takes the couple to the building where Marion's parents Anna and Jeannot live. He runs an art gallery. The couple will stay in a small apartment upstairs. Anna has the key, which leads to at least one embarrassing moment.In a flashback, the audience learns that as a child Marion would sometimes stop moving and just look at the world around her. Marion has a vision problem that keeps her from seeing certain details. With glasses or contacts she can apparently see fine except in the areas where it looks like objects are blocking her view. Marion was given a camera which would allow her to take photos and then look at the photos instead of just staring.Earlier, as a flashback shows, the couple stopped just to let her parents have Jean-Luc the cat for several days. Apparently they fed the cat too much because he is huge. This is just one way in which the visit with her parents is unpleasant for them and funny for the audience. Rose, who teaches rich children with problems, comes for a visit to add even more tension.Marion's parents have a plumbing disaster and for some reason they call the fire department, who can't really do anything.While in Paris, the couple visits Jim Morrison's grave, where some people are acting like they are on drugs and the music seems appropriate. They also visit Jeannot's gallery and go to a party hosted by Marion's friend Vanessa. One of Marion's exes Manu is there, which causes some tension. Also, Marion apparently has a reaction to something she ate, which frightens her because she feels like she is dying.The couple take several cab rides, some pleasant and some unpleasant. One man is very nice and chooses pleasant music for them to listen to. Another rants about all the things he hates about people from other countries. Marion makes her feelings clear and he comes close to calling the cops.In a restaurant, Marion sees another of her exes who treated her very badly. She tries to be polite at first and finally behaves in a way that gets them kicked out. It has been stated that Jack spent time in prison and has anger management issues, but Jack never really gets angry even though it would be justified given some of the situations he has gotten into.After Jack finds messages from one of Marion's exes Mathieu on her phone, the couple fight and go their separate ways for a while. Jack has a difficult time in a fast food restaurant where the employee doesn't speak English. A man who describes himself as a fairy sits at his table and has a sort of nice conversation with Jack, though it includes describing why he shouldn't be eating fast food. And then the man sets the place on fire. Jack also ends up in a bad section of town where a man who apparently looks like him runs past carrying a purse, followed by a woman yelling for help who accuses Jack.Marion sees an embarrassing statue of her created by one of her exes.Eventually the couple make up and it is time to go home.