5th-century British knight Sir Lionel (Gabriel Byrne) tells the origin-story of King Arthur (Pierce Brosnan/Steve Perry) to his only child, protagonist Kayley (Jessalyn Gilg/Andrea Corr). Soon afterward, he is summoned to a meeting of the Round Table ('United We Stand'), where Arthur proposes to divide their new territories among its members. The rebellious Sir Ruber (Gary Oldman) demands a larger share than his comrades; and when Lionel defies him, threatens Arthur. Ruber is driven off by Arthur, wielding Excalibur, but kills Lionel and escapes, with a vow of revenge. Following Lionel's funeral, Kayley trains herself in chivalry, over the next ten years ('On my Father's Wings').Another meeting of the Round Table is interrupted by Ruber's griffin (Bronson Pinchot), who steals Excalibur, but loses it immediately, when attacked by Ayden Silverwings: a falcon summoned by Merlin (Sir John Gielgud). Excalibur falls into the Forbidden Forest: a realm of ferocious mutants, neither plant nor animal but some combination of the two. Meanwhile, Ruber invades Lionel's estate, where he captures Kayley's mother Lady Juliana (Jane Seymour/Celine Dion) to use as a decoy, and uses a magic liquid to change his minions into monstrous, invincible automata ('Ruber'). When the Griffin reports the loss of Excalibur, Kayley enters the Forest to retrieve it ('Forbidden Forest'), with Ruber and his minions in pursuit. Kayley is nearly captured, but rescued by Garrett (Cary Elwes/Bryan White): a former stableboy at Camelot, sometime a squire of Lionel's, and an adept fighter in spite of his blindness (incurred in an accident), who lives a recluse's life in the Forest, under the protection of Ayden. In spite of Garrett's reluctance ('I Stand Alone'), Kayley accompanies him and Ayden in search of Excalibur.Further along, the three enter a volcanic-like 'Dragon Country', where they are attacked by several dragons and nearly cornered by Ruber and the Griffin ('Dragon Attack'), but escape in the company of Devon & Cornwall (Eric Idle & Don Rickles): a comic duo of conjoined twin dragons. In hiding, Devon & Cornwall explain, they are despised and bullied by other dragons for their inability to fly and breathe fire, and each blames the other ('If I didn't have you'). Rather than be punished for assisting outsiders, Devon and Cornwall accompany Kayley and Garrett on the rest of their journey. At camp that night, Garrett relates his past to Kayley.The next day, they find Excalibur's baldric, but discover the sword itself to have been taken by some much larger creature. They are attacked again by Ruber and his minions, and Garrett is wounded. Kayley heals him with some local plants, and they fall in love ('Looking through your Eyes'). Soon afterward, they reach the lair of a gigantic, stony-skinned Ogre, from whom they recover Excalibur, and escape Ruber and his minions a third time. With that done, Kayley prepares to enter Camelot; but Garrett, believing himself still a misfit, refuses to go with her ('I Stand Alone' reprise). On the road to Camelot, Kayley is captured, and Ruber seizes Excalibur. Devon & Cornwall recover Garrett, and in the process become capable of flight, which Garrett guesses to be a result of their newfound unity of purpose.With Lady Juliana as decoy, Ruber and his minions bluff their way into Camelot, where the minions fight the guards ('The Battle'), while Ruber confronts Arthur. Kayley is nearly killed by two of Ruber's men, but rescued by Garrett, Devon, & Cornwall. Garrett and Kayley follow a secret passage into the keep to rescue Arthur, while Devon and Cornwall destroy the Griffin. Juliana joins the defenders, herself guarded by Bladebeak (Jaleel White): a rooster from her farm, transformed by Ruber but siding with Juliana. At the Round Table itself, Kayley and Garrett trick Ruber into returning Excalibur to the stone from which Arthur originally drew it, and thus destroying himself and his minions. Devon & Cornwall are 'offered' a chance to separate into two, but decline it. With Ruber dead, Arthur recovers Excalibur, and knights both Garrett and Kayley, at a grand ceremony attended by all the surviving characters. They then ride away together, which concludes the film.