The body of Captain Elisabeth Campbell (Leslie Stefanson), a rising military star who teaches psychological warfare, has been found tied down to the ground in the middle of an urban warfare training field at Fort MacCallum in Georgia.As a result, the base's head MP, Colonel Bill Kent (Timothy Hutton), has called on his old friend, Criminal Investigation Division (CID) Warrant Officer Paul Brenner (John Travolta) to investigate.Brenner discovers that Elisabeth's father is legendary three-star General Joe Campbell (James Cromwell), Brenner's former commanding officer, and Joe is currently a potential Vice Presidential candidate.Joe is willing to cooperate in any fashion, but both Joe and his right-hand man, Colonel George Fowler (Clarence Williams III), want Brenner to do things "the Army way" -- that is, keep it quiet -- and they inform Brenner that he has 36 hours before the FBI will take over the case.Brenner discovers that the CID rape investigator assigned to the case is Sarah Sunhill (Madeleine Stowe), a woman that Brenner was once involved with. As the two investigate the case, they search Elisabeth's home, and discover a secret room full of equipment that's used for kinky sex.There are also video tapes. It seems that Elisabeth had been having sex with a lot of the men who are stationed at Fort MacCallum, and she had been videotaping it.Sarah heads out to the car, and while Paul is on his way out of the house, he's attacked by a man who steals evidence from him. Later, Paul and Sarah talk to Private First-Class Robbin (Ariyan A. Johnson), who was on guard duty in a tower on the night of the murder.According to Robbin, Elisabeth was like an advocate for women in the army -- Robbin explains that there's a lot of stuff that women have to put up with in the army, and that a lot of men don't like the fact that there are women in the army. Elisabeth encouraged women, and stood up for them, and even organized meetings for female enlisted.Robbin tells Elisabeth that she saw car headlights at the murder scene three times on the night of the murder -- once at 3:00am, once at 3:30am, and once at 4:00am.Later, at a bar, Sarah tells Paul that Elisabeth got a degree at the United States Military Academy (aka Army) in West Point, New York, and that something happened to Elisabeth in her sophomore year 7 years ago, but Sarah doesn't know what it is. That night, while going over the murder scene by herself, Sarah is attacked.Paul suspects that Elisabeth's commanding officer, Colonel Robert Moore (James Woods), one of the men that Elisabeth slept with, might've somehow been involved in the murder, so he arrests Robert, and demands that Robert tell him what happened to Elisabeth in her sophomore year at West Point, but Robert refuses to say what it is.After that, Paul and Sarah confront Captain Jake Elby (Boyd Kestner). It was Jake who attacked Sarah. Jake is another man that Elisabeth slept with, and he didn't want his superiors to know that. Jake tells Sarah and Paul that Elisabeth and Joe were not close to each other.Jake says that Elisabeth even slept with Deputy Wes Yardley (Chris Snyder), the son of local police chief Yardley (Daniel von Bargen). Jake says that Elisabeth had mentioned that she was conducting a field experiment in psychological warfare, and that her enemy was Joe.Sarah and Paul go to the jail to talk to Robert, who has been released by Bill. That news sends Paul and Sarah to Robert's house, where they find Robert dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Later, forensics expert Cal Seiver (Rick Dial), who did the forensics work on Elisabeth's murder scene, tells Paul and Sarah that Elisabeth was not raped on the night of her murder. Fowler tells Paul that he wants the case closed immediately, with Robert named as Elisabeth's killer, but Paul refuses to back down.Sarah gets Elisabeth's psychological report from when she was a student at West Point, and also gets some pages from Elisabeth's medical file. That leads Paul and Sarah to decide to go to West Point to interview Elisabeth's former psychiatrist, Colonel Donald Slesinger (John Beasley). Donald tells them that 7 years ago in her sophomore year, Elisabeth was one of the academy's top students, and that she outdid a lot of the men during training runs.At the end of Elisabeth's sophomore year, there was a big nighttime exercise, and there were thousands of students involved in it. Elisabeth got separated from her group, and she found herself with about a half dozen men.They tied her down, exactly the way she was tied down on the night of her murder, and after tying Elisabeth down, they severely beat her up, and they raped her almost to death, all night long, taking turns. They threatened to kill Elisabeth if she talked.Elisabeth was hospitalized and treated for venereal disease, and it was discovered that the rape did not get her pregnant. No conception had happened. Donald tells Paul and Sarah where his office key is hidden, and then tells them to check Elisabeth's file, which gives the name of Captain Bransford (Brad Beyer).That day, 36 hours after Elisabeth's murder, Sarah confronts Bransford, who was with the men who raped Elisabeth 7 years ago. Bransford admits that he tried to stop the rape, but the men who raped her hated her venomously. They hated that she was smarter than they were, and they hated being out there with a woman.Bransford did everything he could, but he couldn't make them stop raping Elisabeth. Bransford tells Sarah that the rapists were his recon squad, and that the names of the recon squad members are in the academy's yearbook from that year.Paul discovers that Robert had placed a call to Joe on the night of the murder. Paul goes to Joe's house, and confronts Joe, who admits that he was stationed in Berlin, Germany at the time of the rape at West Point.Joe went to West Point as soon as he was told about the rape, but before arriving at the academy, Joe met with his friend, General Sonnenberg (John Frankenheimer), at a hotel close to the academy. Fowler was also at the meeting. General Sonnenberg told Joe to tell Elisabeth to forget about the rape so the academy wouldn't look bad.Paul tells Joe that Sarah has the names of the rapists, who will be facing up to 20 years each in prison. Paul also tells Joe that the recreation of the rape on the night of Elisabeth's murder was Elisabeth's idea, because she had declared psychological war on Joe.First, Elisabeth placed a call to Joe to be at the base no later than 3:30am. At 3:00am that morning, with the first set of headlights that Private Robbin saw belonging to Robert, Elisabeth had Robert tie her down in the same position the rapists placed her in 7 years ago, so Joe would see Elisabeth in that position in person, because she wanted Joe to know what he callously helped cover up at West Point.Joe, who knew that Elisabeth had been sleeping with most of the men on the base, had callously given Elisabeth an ultimatum -- resign her commission or agree to some sort of therapy, and that if she rejected both of those choices, Joe would instruct the staff judge advocate to investigate Elisabeth and draw up charges for a general court martial.On the night of the murder, at about 3:30am, Joe, whose car had the second set of headlights Private Robbin saw, went to the base to get an answer to the ultimatum, and found Elisabeth tied down. Joe callously got angry, left the base, and called Fowler.Fowler's car had the third set of headlights that Private Robbin saw at 4:00am. By the time Fowler arrived at the base at 4:00am, Elisabeth had already been killed. Fowler left.Fowler explains that when he and Joe discovered that Elisabeth had been sleeping with a lot of the men on the base, it was too late for official action. Joe and Fowler would have had to ask for the resignations of Elisabeth and all of the men Elisabeth slept with, and then Joe and Fowler themselves would've had to resign. Fowler vows to always be loyal to Joe, no matter what.This conversation with Joe and Fowler leads Paul to the realization that Elisabeth's killer is Colonel Bill Kent, the base's head MP. Bill was in love with Elisabeth, who didn't want him, because she was afraid to trust men -- an effect that was caused by the rape at West Point. Bill had become obsessed with Elisabeth.Sometime between 3:30am and 4:00am on the night of the murder, Bill found her tied down, and when she spit in his face and angrily rejected his advances, and rejected his attempts to untie her, Bill became angry, and strangled her to death.Paul races to the murder scene, where he confronts Bill, who is holding Sarah hostage. Bill has buried a system of mines that work as follows: One man trips the primary mine, and shrapnel hits everyone within range. But just as Bill steps on a mine, Paul gets Sarah out of the way, and the mine explodes and kills Bill.Paul decides to court martial Joe, who has always been trying to selfishly further his own career at Elisabeth's expense. Joe is found guilty of his involvement in the cover-up of Elisabeth's rape, and Joe subsequently withdraws from public life.On the screen, we see a message that says "Today, nearly 200,000 women serve on active duty in the military services."