Abel Morales is a businessman who tries to do everything honestly. He has been building his business of fuel distribution to quite a big position. He now lands a deal to purchase a bay-front storage facility that will increase the business greatly. But this deal has a risky clause which states that if Abel fails to pay the rest of the due payment, the facility and the deposit will be gone. His trucks have been targeted by robbers from the last few months, which scared his drivers. He even gets an intimidation visit by burglars. Additionally, the DA wants to charges the business with felony counts. His wife suddenly reveals a gun she purchases for her protection, of which he strongly disagrees. Despite his disapproval, Abels drivers arm themselves with guns but lack the permit for them. When another heist occurs and one of his driver fires shots, Abel has to go himself and find the missing driver to turn him to the police. The driver Julian is found, but he ran away when hes about to be turned in. Abel goes every where to get loans as the closure time nears.From one of his competitors the Lefkowicz, Abel gets a deal for 500 thousand dollars or the 1.5 millions he needs. The facility owner grants him an extra three day time, in which he uses to see his brother to ask him to mortgage his apartment to help Abel. He also convenes all his other surrounding competitors saying that he knows at least one of them is in league with his trucks hijackers. On his way home he accidentally finds one of his trucks being hijacked. He follows the truck through a chase. After capturing the robber he finds that one of his competitors has been buying the stolen fuel. When the money needed is only 600 thousand more, he runs out of time. But his wife suddenly pulls out a bank account with enough cash in it. To his surprise, his wife has been skimming money from the company all this time. Finally he decides to use the money and completes the deal. Julian comes to the facility; angry thinking that he gets nothing while Abel gets everything. Abel convinces him theres a second chance, but he commit suicide then and there. Abel then asks for a deal with the visiting DA for his business.