The effect of on-line connection 24/7 is examined through a group of east Texas high school students and their parents. Don Truby (Adam Sandler) and Helen Truby's (Rosemarie Dewitt's) marriage has long been disintegrating about which they both do not speak. While Don early in their problems turned to Internet porn, he now addicted, they both eventually turn to the Internet to find extramarital sex partners to fulfill what is missing in their marriage. Their son, Chris Truby (Travis Tope), who Don discovers is also watching porn on the Internet, which Don solely sees as a rite of passage, is having increasing difficulties in maintaining an erection when it doesn't include anything he considers outside the sexual norm, which may make it difficult for him when he has his first sexual encounter probably of the vanilla variety. Allison Doss (Elena Kampouris) turns to the Internet for any support she can find in maintaining her weight loss, which she is doing solely through controlling her food intake. Her extreme weight loss is largely to attract the attention of fellow student Brandon Lender (Will Peltz), on whom she has long had a crush and who she wants to be her first kiss. It's been a year since Lydia Mooney (Candace Lantz) headed to Los Angeles, California with her boyfriend Greg Cherry (Jon Michael Davis), in the process, leaving her husband Kent Mooney (Dean Norris) and son Tim Mooney (Ansel Elgort). Football star Tim, who has come to the conclusion of one's own insignificance within the grand scheme of the cosmos, has decided not to play football this year against the wants of the school and Kent, turning to on-line gaming of the D and D variety to while away his time. What he has not told Kent is that he secretly follows his mother on Facebook to feel connected to her despite her absence. Patricia Beltmeyer (Jennifer Garner), who teaches Internet protection to other parents and students, monitors every keystroke daughter Brandy Beltmeyer (Kaitlyn Dever) does on her computer, Patricia checking the computer and Brandy's phone once a week as extra security. Although Patricia has never found anything to cause her concern, what Patricia's actions have done is drive Brandy's on-line activities that she does not want her mother to know underground. And former failed actress Donna Clint (Judy Greer) supports her daughter Hannah Clint's (Olivia Crocicchia's) drive to become famous, most specifically in becoming an actress. Donna believes the best way to achieve this goal is for Hannah to have her own webpage, which has increasingly been populated with provocative images of Hannah. Hannah takes that message from her mother a step further by portraying herself as a sexually active being in believing that is what will attract the attention of those who matter.—Huggo