Outside of an enormous waterfall, an older woman named Sivagami is seen carrying a baby. She is tired, injured, and exhausted with an arrow in her back and realizes that two soldiers are following her. She strategically places them in a trap and kills him with their own swords before fleeing. She accidentally gets caught in the river current and is unable to make it to shore. Sivagami prays to Lord Shiva, the Hindu deity of evil's destruction that her life can be taken for her mistakes, but the baby: Mahendra Baahubali must live to see the light. She drowns but not before holding Mahendra above the surface in time that a group of villagers save him. The villagers are the Amburi tribe, who reside near the river and worship Shiva. The leader of the village, Sanga discovers that the drowned lady evaded soldiers and came through a secret cave to escape them. Sivagami pointed up towards the mountain before she died so Sanga's husband realizes that they must take the baby back, but Sanga refuses worrying for his safety. She decides to adopt him and names him Shivudu, alias Shivu.Shivudu grows up 25 years later to be a young, acrobatic, adventurous, and kind hearted man. Much to Sanga's disappointment however he is obsessed with the idea of what adventure could lie above the mountain and spends years trying to climb it. Sanga performs a prayer to Shiva hoping it will make Shivu obedient and stop trying, involving pouring buckets of water from the falls on the Shiva Lingam pedestal. Shivu dislodges the Shiva Lingam and picks it up, showing that he somehow has superhuman strength. Shivu carries to the bottom of the waterfall, soon after he finds a mask. He realizes the mask has left a feminine like face in the mud from where it washed up from. He's further motivated to venture up the mountain to find out who the mask belongs to. He successfully scales the mountain and finds a woman named Avantika being chased by soldiers from a kingdom called Mahishmati. Avantika acts like a damsel but leads them into a trap, and they slaughter the soldiers. Avantika reports back to her tribe's leader, a group of rebels hailing from the fallen kingdom of Kuntala. The tribe is led by chief Jaya Varma, who declares their goal to liberate Mahishmati from it's evil king and emperor Bhallaladeva, alais Bhalla. Bhalla is holding Jaya Varma's sister Devasena hostage, torturing her on a daily basis.Avantika talks to Jaya about Kattappa, a rightous warrior residing in Mahishmati who might be able to help their cause. Jaya confirms the Kattappa has lost motivation and is an honor bound slave to the royals of Mahishmati as his ancestors were. Kattappa oversees weapon manufacturing in Mahishmati, which under Bhalla's rule is achieved through slave labor. Kattappa is visited by a weapon trader named Aslam Khan, whom he befriends upon sharing his past and duties with. Kattappa is a skilled and strong warrior whose lineage is bound to serve the king like a slave despite being a general and commander of the army. Bhalla's birthday is upcoming, which gives the Rebel Tribe the perfect opportunity to rescue Devasena. The honor is granted to Avantika, who finds a hena painting drawn by Shivu on her hand when she was resting earlier. Though accused of neglecting duty for beauty, she assures Jaya that she wants the mission more than anything. The kingdom of Mahishmati is shown to be in an unjust state of slave treatment towards it's citizens by the controlling and power obsessed Bhallaladeva. Also living with Bhalla is his father Lord Bijjaladeva and his son Prince Bhadrudu (alias Bhadra). Bhalla's men have captured a Guar bull from the forest to test his strenght. He defeats the bull and notices that Kattappa tried to stop it from killing him when he was distracted. Bhalla tells Kattappa that he knows that Kattappa hates him and wants to kill him badly, and wonders why Kattappa remains loyal. He decides to grant Kattappa a wish, which turns out to be to release Devasena. Bhalla allows Kattappa to kill her if he wants to but refuses. Kattappa visits Devasena that night and begs for her to let him set her free. Devasena refuses frustrated, as it's shown she's been spending the past 25 years building a pyre just to kill Bhalla. She says that her long lost son is still alive and will make Bhalla pay for his deeds.Shivu further tries to get Avantika's attention and they meet roughly. Shivu tries to lighten up her combat torn life by showing her the inner beauty. Avantika becomes friends with Shivu after Shivu saves her life from Mahishmati soldiers. Shivu promises to hold Avantika's honor, and though he doesn't know Devasena he knows that she's important to the Rebels and vows to save her. Shivu infiltrates Mahishmati the next day and finds Bhalla's men erecting a golden statue of him. The statue falls but Shivu catches it, and his mask reveals his face briefly to a citizen who calls him Baahubali. The men and citizens surrounding them start to chant Baahubali rebelliously, to Bhalla's anger. The statue is positioned, and at that night Bhalla demands to interrogate the guards to find out who was responsible. Shivu disguises himself as a guard and is called to Bhalla's quarters. He escapes successfully and sets Devasena free, taking her out of the kingdom by chariot. He however is stopped by Bhadra's scouts and guards, but fends him off. Kattappa joins the fight but despite his aid, Shivu beheads Bhadra in anger at how he treated Devasena. By this time, Sanga and the Amburis come in search of him in worry as well as the Rebels. Kattappa charges to kill Shivu but stops when he sees a familiar face. He shouts "Baahubali" into the skies and the surrounding tribes and Kattappa's loyal soldiers bow to him.The next morning, Shivu finds out that he's adopted and that his real name is Mahendra Baahubali, and Kattappa tells him about his father: Amarendra Baahubali. Nearly 50 years ago in Mahishmati, King Somadeva from the original royal family had two sons, Bijjaladeva and Mahadeva alias Vikramadeva. Bijjalladeva and Vikramadeva were polar opposites, the former is deranged and obsessed with power while Vikramadeva is kind and caring towards his subjects and kingdom. Vikramadeva became king for this reason leaving Bijjaladeva angered. Vikramadeva later dies in battle after Bijjaladeva has his son Bhallaladeva with his wife Sivagami, who was a subject in the kingdom who rose to loyalty in the royal family. Sivagami decides to take in Vikramadeva's son after Vikramadeva's wife dies from childbirth. Sivagami names the boy Amarendra Baahubali and decides to give them equal rights to the throne. Amarendra and Bhalla train and fight alongside each other, learning academics, philosophy, and combat. Amarendra proves to be loved by the people for his compassion and nobility, and dedication to making the kingdom a safer place. This makes Bhalla jealous over the years and as he gets older, he plots to hurt his cousin/adoptive brother to take the throne for himself and rule with an iron fist the way his father couldn't. One day, a traitor in the kingdom named Sakithan is found by the princes being a spy for the malicious Kalakeya tribe. The Kalakeyas are rough acquaintances of Mahishmati, a tribe of savage plunderers that robs and destroys kingdoms before moving onto the next.The Mahishmati royals plot their counter to the Kalakeya's threat of war using an unused Trident formation. The armies are divided equally, but Lord Bijjaladeva cunningly gives his birth son an advantage with more men and weapons. The next day, upon attempting to settle truce, the chief of the Kalakeyas named Inkoshi insults Sivagami. This makes Baahubali angry and Sivagami demands that he suffers before death. The two sides commence battle and Baahubali uses creative initiative to cripple the Kalakeya army, burning them with tent tarps on fire. Baahubali and Bhalla's armies cut through Inkoshi's forces, through which Inkoshi uses captured villagers as a barrier. Baahubali manages to save them from crossfire while the careless and heartless Bhalla kills them in cold blood. Kattappa holds the enemy back at the gates of the kingdom, but his wall is breached. Baahubali motivates the soldiers into holding up their oath and fight back the brutes who would dare touch their rightious kingdom. Baahubali and Bhalla's troops breach Inkoshi's defense and Inkoshi fights the princes head on. He repels Bhalla who fights with strength and frustration to beat his brother, but Baahubali skillfully disarms and overwhelms Inkoshi with the golden lion head from Bhalla's destroyed scythe chariot.Inkoshi is injured and brought forth, and Bhalla kills him. Bijjaladeva believes that since Bhalla killed him first, he deserves to be the rightful king. Sivagami however decides for Baahubali, who focuses on saving his subjects and leading the soldiers during battle. She declares that Baahubali is a rightious man who deserves to be king, and the soldiers and citizens chant in support of him. Back in the present, Sanga is proud that her adoptive son is the heir of Mahishmati, but Kattappa confesses that Amarendra is dead and that under unknown circumstances, he was forced to kill his own friend.