Four years after the Battle of Gallipoli and after losing his wife, Joshua Connor (Russell Crowe) leaves Australia for Turkey to look for his sons, soldiers in the battle. Upon arriving in Istanbul a young boy, Orhan (Dylan Georgiades), brings him to a hotel managed by his mother Ayshe (Olga Kurylenko). Meanwhile in Gallipoli Major Hasan Bey (Yilmaz Erdogan) and his aide Sergeant Jemal (Cem Yilmaz) arrive at the request of the British War Graves Unit to help them locate the fallen. The British authorities deny Joshua a permit to enter Gallipoli. Joshua gets closer to Orhan until one day Ayshe tells him how to get to Gallipoli without a permit. Detained upon arrival in Gallipoli and ordered to leave, Joshua doesn't go back to Istanbul but instead stays on the beach at Gallipoli. The ranking officer Lt.Col. Hughes (Jai Courtney) then welcomes Joshua to search for his sons in the field. On an excavation day Hasan walks with Joshua retelling the chronology of a battle night there. It's revealed that Joshua's three sons Art (Ryan Corr), Ed (James Fraser), and Henry (Ben O'Toole) are gunned down there. When a soldier finds a skull shot at the back of the head, this provokes Joshua into attacking Hasan. Hasan instead then reveals that Art was taken prisoner and may still be alive. Searching furter back in Istanbul, Joshua hits a dead end but gets even closer to Ayshe and Orhan.Ayshe performs a local fortune telling method with Joshua's coffee, but when she is done she refuses to tell him what the coffee revealed about him. Joshua steps in to help Ayshe as her husband's brother Omer (Steve Bastoni), who eagerly asks her hand in marriage, starts hitting her. Omer tries to exact revenge but Jemal comes for Joshua. Hasan explains that Art may have been taken to Afyon. That night Joshua dreams of Art and knows he is still alive. The British army is determined to send Joshua back home, but Joshua evades capture and joins Hasan and Jemal and the Turk Army to infiltrate Afyon in Anatolia. The group is ambushed by Greek militants just outside of Afyon. Jemal dies to protect Hasan and Joshua, who then escape on horses. Spying a windmill that follows his own design, Joshua knows Art would have built it, and finally finds him. Art refuses to go with him due to his guilt over his brothers' deaths. The Greeks arrive and start to shell the village. Hasan bids them farewell. Art rushes to a hilltop to show Joshua an escape path but refuses to follow him. Joshua talks to him and Art relents, so that the two escape together. Back at Istanbul Joshua finds Ayshe who isn't surprised that he has returned.