NOLAN MACK, 60s, works at a bank as a loan officer, a job he has held for twenty-six years. His demanding boss, DAN BEAUMONT, hopes to give Nolan a promotion to bank manager, but Nolan, not liking change, is resistant. Nolan is married to JOY, 60s, and although they are intellectual companions and love each other very much, they are not intimate, choosing to sleep in separate rooms.Nolan visits his invalid father, LIONEL, at the rest home where he lies mute and immobile from a stroke. On his way home from a dutiful visit, Nolan is attracted once again to the city's red light district. Driving nervously along its sleazy streets populated by prostitutes and gay hustlers, Nolan nearly runs into LEO, 20s, who works those streets. Leo asks for a ride, but Nolan is shocked to find he thinks Nolan is out to buy sex. A nervous Nolan takes Leo to a motel, where he makes coffee and engages the young hustler in conversation, not wanting the sex that a confused Leo assumes he is paying for.Nolan returns home, feeling guilty, but clearly having been touched by Leo's plight. He arranges to meet Leo again, lying to wife Joy about his whereabouts. They return to the motel. Leo removes his clothes, still trying to make their relationship one of a sexual transaction for money, but Nolan only wants to talk with Leo, learning more about him and discussing his own life.Nolan continues seeing Leo on the sly, but it becomes more and more difficult. One night Leo is attacked by sleazy, drug addict pimp, EDDIE, who beats him up. Nolan intercedes on his behalf, paying Eddie to leave Leo alone. Nolan tends to Leo's wounds, lying down on the bed with him to comfort him. Nolan oversleeps, is late for work, earning the censure of boss Beaumont. Nolan's boss is watching Nolan carefully, as he has arranged a dinner with the bank's district manager in the hopes of getting Nolan the promotion.Nolan has difficulty explaining the black eye he received from Eddie. Nolan's best friend WINSTON, a college professor with a young girlfriend, PATTY, is suspicious, wondering what's come over his ordinarily straight-arrow friend. Joy also doubts Nolan's story that he hit his eye on a file cabinet drawer. Nolan tries to get Leo a job working at a cafe managed by Patty, taking Leo out to buy the required slacks and shirt he will need. Leo doesn't show up for the job, angering Nolan, who goes to Leo's apartment, finding him with a middle-aged MAN, a paying customer. They argue and Leo tells him to get out, slamming the door in Nolan's face.A frustrated Nolan goes to visit his father Lionel. He finally tells his father that he knew he was gay at age twelve but has always hidden it. All Nolan's father can do is look away from his son. Nolan goes home to Joy. Sensing he's drifting away, Joy asks him to lie down in bed with her, wanting him to spend the night. They hold each other and profess their love for each other, but there will be no intimacy.Joy goes out of town to a teaching conference, leaving Nolan alone. He's trying to avoid Leo but when Leo shows up at Nolan's bank with Eddie, who wants the money Leo owes him, an altercation develops in the parking lot. The skirmish gets the attention of the entire bank, including Nolan's friend Winston, who had shown up for lunch. Police take Eddie away, but Nolan tells them Leo was not responsible.Nolan takes Leo to his house. He makes him a sandwich and they watch a movie together. Nolan goes to sleep that night and Leo comes into his room. Leo continues not understanding their relationship, wanting to provide sex for the money Nolan always gives him, but Nolan only wants tenderness, wanting to hold him. Leo cannot offer this, and he leaves during the night. Joy returns in the morning wondering why the front door was open and sensing something is wrong.Once again, Nolan tries to avoid Leo's calls. Nolan and Joy prepare for the dinner with the district manager, but a phone call from a hospital sends Nolan off to see Leo, who was found unconscious from a drug overdose. Nolan has told a frustrated Joy to go the dinner without him and that he will join her, but Nolan, finding Leo has fled the hospital and his apartment, doesn't show up.Nolan goes home to a furious Joy. Nolan can no longer lie about his secret life, and they fight. Nolan loves Joy, but he can't stay in what he feels is a sham marriage. He insists they both need to face the real world. Nolan leaves Joy, also leaving his job at the bank and later we see him meeting a man at a cafe, presumably to begin a new, more honest life.