Lee Marvin plays Walker, a man who loses his share of $93,000 when he's double-crossed on a heist. His old pal Mal Reese (John Vernon) filled him with bullet holes and left him to rot, presuming he was dead or would die soon anyway. Reese needed all the money to pay back his debts to the Organization. Walker's wife also came along for the ride, but she didn't know what was going to happen. The job took place at the dark and dreary old prison, Alcatraz, where money pick-ups are made. After being shot up, Walker apparently made it out alive. During this sequence, and throughout the film, there are flashbacks to provide the backstory. They help convey Walker's thoughts and feelings, even if it seems like he doesn't have them anymore. He is portrayed as austere, terse, and slightly aloof.Now all Walker wants to do is get his money back. At the inception of this storyline we see Walker stomping down a corridor, his footsteps loud, repetitive, pounding. Walker is fiercely determined, a man on a mission. Walker does a lot of walking throughout the movie, going from one place to another until he finds justice. That's the only thing on his mind. Shots of his wife getting out of bed, going out, and coming back home play while the pounding of his footsteps overshadow it. Since his wife is the person closest to him, and because she had an affair with Reese, Walker goes straight for her first. As the sound of footsteps come to a halt, we see Walker uninhibitedly barge in his wife's front door with a gun in hand, knock her down, and head right for the bedroom-blasting away several rounds at the bed. Reese wasn't there as he'd hoped. Now it's up to Walker to hunt down Reese through his connections. Reese is a top man in the syndicate this time around, so getting to him is not easy. Walker enlists the help of his wife's sister (Angie Dickinson). Since Reese wouldn't give him the cash, Walker disposes of him and move to the next guy in line. The bill gets passed down. Walker simply holds the whole Organization accountable. He won't relent until his gets the money.It all comes down to Walker going back to the place that haunts his memory: Alcatraz. That's where his money will be dropped. Once again, an act of treachery is in the works. Walker is set up to be hit by a sniper. He observes the drop-off point from overhead, waits it out, and makes the men believe he didn't show up. At the last moment, all you see is Walker dissipate into the darkness like a ghost. The ending doesn't fill in the blanks. Will he retrieve the money? Has this all been a dream from the beginning when he was left to die? The answers are left up to the viewer.