In a fictional outcome for the 2015 Canadian federal election, a political party comes to power and establishes a law called S-14, allowing parents of troubled children and limited finances to place their children in hospitals, without regard for fundamental justice.After the law is passed, Diane "Die" Després, a widowed mother and 46-year-old journalist, picks up her son Steve, who has ADHD with violent tendencies, from an institution, in the aftermath of Steve starting a fire in which another youth was injured. Die brings Steve to their new home in Saint-Hubert and struggles to care for him under financial distress. When Steve gives her a cart full of groceries and a necklace reading "Mommy", Die suspects that he has stolen the latter. Enraged by the accusation, Steve begins choking her, and she defends herself by hitting him with a glass frame. Whilst chaos ensues, Kyla, a neighbor and teacher on sabbatical, shows up to tend to their wounds.Kyla, who is dealing with a stuttering problem, begins to tutor Steve. After a disastrous tutoring session where Steve berates Kyla, she snaps and attacks him. After the confrontation, Steve mellows and indicates he is glad to know her and respects her wishes not to call her "babe". Although the three have bonded and their situation seems to improve, Die is served papers by the parents of the injured boy, indicating she and Steve are being sued for the injuries caused by his fire.Die finds a lawyer willing to help them and the three of them go out for the evening for something to eat. They end up at a karaoke bar, where Steve is increasingly agitated by the atmosphere and what he sees as his mother's sexual interest in the lawyer. Steve decides to sing, but is taunted by the audience, leading to a fight. Steve, Die and their lawyer argue, ending with Die slapping the lawyer in retaliation for slapping Steve, driving the lawyer away.Die continues to try and help her son and rebuild their lives, but while out shopping, with Steve and Kyla, Steve disappears and slits his wrist. Although he survives, Die later finds herself reflecting on all the dreams she had for her son to live a fulfilled, happy life. She finally drives to a hospital to commit him under S-14; Steve angrily resists, and she begins to regret the decision when she helplessly watches the officials use violence and tasers to subdue him.Kyla announces she is moving to Toronto and Die encourages her, expressing hope for Steve, but after Kyla makes a faux-pas about 'abandoning her family', Die privately breaks down in tears. Back at the hospital, Steve is being unstrapped from a straitjacket by officials. Immediately after the straps are removed, Steve flees, running towards a large window.