In the Penguins of Madagascar, audiences will discover the secrets of the most entertainingly mysterious birds in the global espionage game. the movie opens with a backstory set about a decade before the first movie, where Skipper (oldest penguin), Kowalski (smartest penguin) and Rico (craziest penguin, with the ability to swallow anything and spit it out later) are three young Adelie penguin chick brothers living in Antarctica who believe there is more to life than cuteness and nature. they see an orphaned penguin egg roll into a shipwreck where they save it from leopard seals and eventually blow up the shipwreck, killing all the seals. as they float on an iceberg across the Pacific Ocean, looking for an adventure somewhere, the egg hatches into a baby penguin chick who they adopt as their new brother and name him Private. they eventually reach the city of New York, United States where they are exhibited in the Central Park Zoo.ten years later, right after the events of the third movie, the penguins have developed spy skills and belong to both the Central Park Zoo and a European circus called Circus Zaragoza. the four penguins leave the circus and break into the Kentucky Fort Knox Depository to celebrate Private's tenth birthday, they present him with a vending machine full of Cheese Puff packets as a present. but before they can eat any, mysterious tentacles pull the penguins into the machine and jumps into a helicopter which takes them to a top secret laboratory inside a purple submarine. in the lab, a mysterious creepy mad scientist appears who gives his "human alias" as Professor Octavius Styroker Brine and claims to know the penguins. he then reveals himself to really be a purple Giant Pacific octopus (who is a master of disguise, due to him having both a very human-like face and an ability of camouflage) named David "Dave" the Octopus, and explains that he used to live in the Central Park Zoo before he was replaced by the penguins, and since then he had hated penguins and disguised as a human scientist while trying to find a way to destroy all penguins for revenge by using his new deadly invention "The Medusa Potion".the four penguins steal the potion and escape the submarine while being chased by Dave's evil octopus minions through Venice, Italy. they are eventually rescued by a top secret intelligence agency for Arctic animals called "The Northern Wind" (consisting of the snowy wolf leader Agent Classified, computer assistant arctic owl Agent Eva, explosive-obsessed weapons expert harp seal Agent Short-Fuse and penguin loving polar bear Agent Corporal) who intend to stop Dave's schemes. Skipper, Kowalski, Rico and Private now must join forces with the chic spy organisation, the North Wind, led by the arctic wolf Agent Classified (we could tell you his name, but then you know) to stop the cunning villain Dr. David Brine from taking over the world and destroying the penguin species as we know it.the North Wind take them to their secret hideout base inside an iceberg in the ocean, Kowalski develops a crush on a member of the agency, a snowy owl named Agent Eva. the penguins and the North Wind introduce and explain themselves to each other and discuss everything they know about Dave and his plans. whilst the penguins take interest in the agency's gadgets and reveal they stole the potion, Classified seems unsatisfied with the penguins who seem too clumsy, enthusiastic, unintelligent and inexperienced despite claiming to be a spy gang themselves. after the penguins accidentally blow up the North's Wind's plane and attempt to steal their jet-packs, Classified darts them and has them shipped to the remote island of Madagascar, Africa. but Skipper and his crew escape the plane and track Dave to the city of Shanghai, China.in Shanghai, the penguins find that Dave's next target is the Shanghai Zoo's Mermaid-Penguin aquarium exhibit. they convince Private to be used as a distraction (as they think he is not skilled enough, judging by his cuteness) and attempt to capture Dave (who sneaks in disguised as a human diver) by flooding the aquarium, but Dave escapes through the pipes and manages to kidnap Private (along with all the other penguins in the zoo). Dave breaks out of the zoo and uses his submarine to escape, the penguins pursue him using the North Wind (who arrive late)'s spy plane. at the same time, the North Wind pursue the penguins in a boat to get their plane back. the chase eventually ends in the penguins again accidentally blowing up the plane and crashing it into the boat, causing them all to end up stranded in the middle of the ocean.Classified manages to track Dave's submarine to a tropical island, and there they attempt to break in to defeat Dave. but instead Dave traps them and takes them to his lab, where he reveals his plan to use a giant laser machine, powered by the Medusa Potion formula, to transform the entire penguin population into insane penguin-like hybrid monsters that can attack the world and will be publicly hated. he attempts to test his laser experiment on Private, but he manages to escape just in time (using one of Rico's paperclips which he had accidentally swallowed earlier). Dave succeeds in his plan, and releases all the penguins on New York City. Private finds his three brothers as monsters, and mentally restores their knowledge with his cuteness. they steal Dave's Medusa Laser beam and power it using Private's cuteness in order to reverse all the penguins back to normal again, at the risk of Private absorbing all the Medusa energy. it also reduces Dave into a baby version of himself. Classified apologises to the penguins for mistaking them, and repays them by making them agents of the North Wind and giving them jet-packs which they use to fly through the sunset and back to Circus Zaragoza.in post-credits, we see the penguins back at the circus who use Morty Lemur's cuteness to reverse the ray and undo Private's mutation. Mort seems unaffected by this experiment at first until he swallows King Julian XIII whole.