The plot centers on ghosts invading the world of the living via the Internet. It features two parallel story lines.First storyPlant shop employee Kudo Michi (Kumiko Aso) has recently moved to Tokyo. Her co-workers include Sasano Junko, Toshio Yabe and Taguchi, who has been missing for some days working on a computer disk. Michi goes to Taguchi's apartment and finds him distracted and aloof; during their conversation, he casually makes a noose, leaves, and hangs himself. Michi and her friends inspect the disk he left behind and discover it contains an image of Taguchi staring at his own computer monitor, creating an endless series of images. In the other monitor on his desk, they discover a ghostly face staring out into Taguchi's room.Yabe receives a phone call of a distorted voice saying, "Help me." Upon checking his phone, he sees the same image found on Taguchi's disk. He goes to Taguchi's apartment and sees a black stain on the wall where he hanged himself, as well as a paper with "The forbidden room" written on it. He notices a door sealed with red tape and enters, encountering a ghost. Yabe becomes depressed and tells Michi that he saw something horrible in "the forbidden room."Michi receives a call like the one Yabe had received. She checks on Yabe and sees a black stain on the wall similar to Taguchi's one. She panics when she realizes Junko has unsealed and entered a red-taped door. Inside, she witnesses Junko being cornered by a ghost and rescues her. Junko becomes catatonic from the encounter. She later steps toward the wall and becomes a black stain. Worried, Michi goes to check on her mother and meets Ryosuke Kawashima.Second storyRyosuke, an economics student, has recently signed up to a new Internet Service Provider. His computer accesses a website by itself, showing him disturbing images of people alone in dark rooms, exhibiting bizarre behavior. That night, Ryosuke wakes up to find his computer on again with the disturbing images and frantically unplugs it. The next day, Harue Karasawa (Koyuki), a post-graduate computer science student, suggests he either bookmark the page or print the images for her to examine. Ryosuke attempts to do so, but finds that his computer will not follow his commands. Instead, a video plays of a man with his head in a plastic bag in a room with the words "HELP ME" written all over the walls.A classmate explains his theory that souls have begun to invade the physical world. Harue acts strange and suggests that ghosts would want to trap humans in their own loneliness rather than kill them. Ryosuke tries to escape with her to a faraway place using the subway. However, the train stops and Harue is seized by a desire to return home. Upon returning to her apartment, she witnesses the man with the plastic bag shoot himself on her computer, Harue then presses the "enter" key and sees a video of herself in the present moment on the screen. As she embraces the invisible figure watching her, Harue claims that she is "not alone". When Ryosuke bursts in, she has vanished.As people gradually begin vanishing, evacuations of Tokyo begin, and a full-scale invasion of the Kanto region by the ghosts is underway. Ryosuke meets Michi and they find Harue in an abandoned factory, where she shoots herself. When Ryosuke and Michi's car runs out of gas, Ryosuke enters a warehouse to search for fuel. He opens a door sealed with red tape and encounters a ghost who insists that it is "real" and who explains that "death was eternal loneliness". Although he tries to resist the ghost's influence, Ryosuke loses the will to live, and Michi drags him to safety. They drive through a burning Tokyo, encountering apocalyptic scenery as well as a U.S. Army cargo plane that crashes from the sky. After locating a small motorboat, the pair are found and brought aboard a ship departing from Tokyo, crewed by a small group of survivors who tell them that similar events are happening worldwide. As the ship heads for Latin America, Ryosuke and Michi go below deck, where Ryosuke disintegrates into ashes while Michi declares that she has found happiness, being alone with her last friend in the world.