On April 29, 1975, South Vietnamese citizens evacuate their homes and head to the United States Embassy to find a way to leave the city of Saigon before it falls to the communist North Vietnamese army advancing on the city. U.S. embassy personnel and Vietnamese refugees board helicopters on the embassy's rooftop. U.S. Army Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) enters the embassy looking for his Vietnamese wife, Lin Tan Cang Braddock (Miki Kim), an embassy translator. He learns that Lin returned home to get her travel papers.In her apartment, Lin packs for her departure with the help of a friend. While assisting Lin, the friend steals a white bracelet, a gift from Braddock. After Lin leaves the apartment, a missile is fired into the building, killing her friend. While Lin walks to the embassy, her purse and travel documents are stolen. Meanwhile, Braddock arrives at Lin's apartment and sees two medics carrying out a body with a white bracelet. Believing the body is Lin, Braddock returns to the embassy.Later, Lin reaches the embassy's gates, but is unable to enter without her documents. As she pleads with the gate captain, waves of Vietnamese citizens storm the embassy walls, forcing soldiers to lock the gates and close down the embassy. On the rooftop, Col. Braddock sees a man push a woman to steal her seat on a departing helicopter. Braddock throws the man aside, but he pulls a gun and shoots Braddock. Injured, Braddock is placed in the helicopter and departs from Saigon.Twelve years later in Washington, D.C., Reverend Polanski (Yehuda Efroni) of the Amerasian Children's Mission in Vietnam for orphaned children of American and Asian parentage, approaches Braddock in a bar. He informs Braddock that Lin is alive in Vietnam, and living with Braddock's 12-year-old Amerasian son, Van. Braddock tells him he saw Lin's body and he never had a child with her. Disappointed, Reverend Polanski leaves the bar to return to Vietnam. As Braddock readies to leave the bar as well, two Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agents ask him to come with them. The agents bring Braddock to the office of Dan Littlejohn (Jack Rader). When Littlejohn asks if Reverend Polanski told him about his wife and son, Braddock concludes the story is true, otherwise the CIA would not have asked him about them. Braddock asks if the CIA will free his family, but Littlejohn says no.A few days later, Braddock flies to Bangkok, Thailand, and meets with Mik (Ron Barker), an expatriate pilot living in Thailand. Mik tells Braddock he has acquired a plane and supplies to allow Braddock to sneak into Vietnam. Before they leave, Littlejohn and CIA agents spot Mik and Braddock in a bar. As one agent leads Mik outside, Braddock fights Littlejohn and the others. Finding Mik in a car, they drive away, chased by Littlejohn's men and Thai law enforcement. After escaping, Braddock and Mik drive to the airfield. They fly toward the Vietnam coast.Braddock parachutes from the plane into the water below, with a jet-powered speedboat, and escapes capture by the Vietnamese military. Traveling along an inland waterway, Braddock hides his boat and looks for the Amerasian Children's Mission. Meanwhile, Reverend Polanski sits down for dinner with the orphans when he sees Braddock. He shows Braddock the hut where Lin and Van live. Upon entering, Lin hugs Braddock and introduces him to his son, Van. However, Van is distrustful of his father. The three leave, but Van lags behind and is stopped by two patrolmen. Braddock punches both men unconscious, and continues to direct Lin and Van to his boat.However, General Quoc (Aki Aleong) and his men surround the family. Quoc informs Braddock he has heard of his reputation during the Vietnam War of being an MIA and, to seek revenge, shoots Lin in the head, killing her.At a military station, Quoc ties Braddock's wrists and hangs him with his toes just touching the floor. Quoc explains the ties connect to a shotgun that will fire at Van if Braddock sets his feet flat on the floor. As hours go by, Braddock does not move. Frustrated, Quoc electrocutes Braddock to make him move. Nevertheless, Braddock stays on his toes. Growing impatient, Quoc forces Braddock's feet to fall flat on the floor, but no shell is fired. The boy is placed in a nearby cell as Quoc continues to electrocute Braddock. Braddock passes out and Quoc orders his guards to take him away.On the way to his cell, Braddock awakens and kills the guards. He frees Van and they run to the Amerasian Children's Mission. Quoc follows with reinforcements. At the Mission, Quoc finds Van, and orders him, Reverend Polanski and all the children taken to a prison. Afterward, Braddock returns to his boat for weapons and ammunition to attack the prison.The following morning, Braddock sneaks inside and frees Van and the children. He tells them to get into a nearby truck as Van releases Reverend Polanski. As they escape, helicopters fire at them. To lose the helicopters, Braddock drives into the jungle and orders the children out of the truck to hide.After the helicopters leave, Braddock leads Reverend Polanski and the children toward the Thai boarder 90 kilometers away, but the children are unable to complete the trek. Braddock sees an airfield and steals an airplane. As they take off, Quoc and his men arrive and shoot bullets into the plane, puncturing the fuel tank. Braddock radios for assistance from any U.S. Armed Forces stationed nearby. When the fuel runs out, Braddock lands the plane. The group wanders into the jungle and locates a bridge that crosses into Thailand. Braddock tells Reverend Polanski to guide the children after he has killed the soldiers guarding the bridge. Before going, Braddock tells Van he is proud of him and loves him.On the Thailand side of the bridge, CIA official Littlejohn tells General Duncan of the U.S. Armed Forces that Braddock and the Amerasian children are on the Vietnamese side. Braddock kills the Vietnamese soldiers, but is injured by a grenade. Seeing his father hurt, Van runs to Braddock as Quoc arrives in a helicopter gunship. As Quoc prepares to fire at Braddock and Van, two U.S. armed helicopters hover over the bridge, aiming their guns at Quoc. Van and Braddock shoot Quoc's helicopter, causing it to crash and killing Quoc. After the crash, Braddock, Van, Reverend Polanski and the Amerasian children cross the bridge and leave Vietnam for good.