Sixteen-year-old Alice Palmer drowns while swimming with her family at a dam in Ararat, Australia. Following the tragedy, her teenaged brother Mathew sets up video cameras around the house to record what seem to be images of Alice's ghost appearing in the family home. They consult psychic Ray Kemeny for insight on the apparent haunting, but he is unable to provide explanation. It is discovered that Mathew was actually setting up the "sightings" of his dead sister to give the family reason to exhume her body and give his mother closure. However, upon closer review, one of the hoax videos captures Alice's bedroom being searched by Brett, a neighbor for whom she had worked as a babysitter. After her own search of the bedroom, Alice's mother June finds a hidden videotape showing Alice in a sexual encounter with Brett and his wife.Ray admits that Alice had met with him several months before her death and had told him she was having dreams about drowning, being dead and her mother not being able to see or help her. Alice's boyfriend comes forward with mobile phone footage of a school trip to Lake Mungo, in which Alice is captured burying something at the base of a tree. The Palmers travel to Lake Mungo and find the tree, where they dig up her mobile phone. The footage on the phone shows her walking down the shoreline of the lake and encountering a ghostly, corpse-like doppelganger of herself, with a bloated and disfigured face, appearing just as her body had been found in the lake.The Palmers move out of their house, feeling that Alice had simply wanted them to know who she really was and what she had seen. The family now believes that the haunting has ended and Alice's ghost has moved on. The film ends with a family photo of the Palmers on the front lawn of their house as the figure of Alice watches from the window. The credits are inter-cut with prior footage, revealing several sightings of Alice's ghost throughout the film that had gone unnoticed. After the credits have rolled, a figure that may be Alice or her doppelganger stands at Lake Mungo in the darkness while lightning strikes.