&#12302;&#12362;&#26089;&#12424;&#12358;&#12303;Minoru (Koji Shitara) and Isamu (Masahiko Shimazu) are two siblings. They are constantly visiting their neighbour's home to watch TV. The last straw takes place when their mother forbids them to go there with their friend to watch a sumo game finals. The children go to Heiichiro Fukui (Keiji Sada) an unemployed English teacher, for English tutoring. Arita Setsuko (Yoshiko Kuga), their young aunt, offers some extra work for him doing translations.Also, their mothers are a bit stressed: the money for their quotas and rent seem to have disappeared. After much ado, a lot of hassle and everybody suspecting everybody of being a thief, the money appears in a brown envelope. Kikue Haraguchi (Haruko Sigimura) is thought to have kept the money to buy a washing machine. Although some of the neighbours don't want to believe it, because she's paying for it in instalments, others think it's a clear proof of her guilt. Mrs Okubo (Toyo Takahashi) is the one gossiping about everybody.Grandma Haraguchi (Eiko Miyoshi) received the envelope without acknowledging what it was and left it aside among the library books. Mother and daughter have a little row about grandma's memory, although she's just scared off a door-to-door salesman, because her daughter feels terrified by them.Minoru has a quarrel with his father, who accuses him of talking too much. The father feels old, and had a bar conversation with a drunk neighbour Yoshikazu Ookubo, aka Zen (Masuo Fujiki) who has left him feeling lonely and depressed. Minoru and Isamu decide to start a strike of their own to get the longed-for TV set: they will stop talking altogether, both at home and school. Because of that, they stop eating altogether, and they can't even bite a bit of Arita's delicious dessert. They don't even ask their parents for their tea money to eat at school, so one of the teachers has pity on them and buys them something.Finally, the father decides to buy a TV set, paying in several months. He is the first person who buys something from Zen, who has left retirement to start working as a door-to-door salesman as well. The children can talk again freely.Tamiko and Heiichiro are clearly in love, but neither of them seems to be able to throw the question. Heiichiro is strongly advised to do it, but the film ends with him make senseless chit-chat with Tamiko about the weather.