Piccolo is training alone but is interrupted by Garlic Jr and his henchmen attack him, Piccolo uses his ultimate attack. At Kami's lookout, Kami says that Piccolo is dead. The opening credits play. Outside, Gohan is learning his studies. Chi Chi calls for him to come home. The Ox King appears and Chi Chi comes outside, the Ox King has a present for Gohan but then he is attacked and falls over. Garlic Jr.'s henchman appears behind him and Gohan is scared and she takes off her apron and gets ready to fight him. Another of Garlic Jr.'s henchmen appears, the first attacks Chi-Chi and she falls down. Goku who is bathing has a sense she is hurt and he hops out of the lake and runs to save her. Gohan starts running away but gets kidnapped.Goku drops the fish and runs to Chi Chi. She says that Gohan was captured. The main villain Garlic Jr is proud that his henchmen has captured Gohan. We find out that the reason Gohan was captured was because of his Dragon Ball on his hat. Garlic Jr explains that soon he will have all seven Dragon Balls and then he will be immortal At Master Roshi's house, Goku, Bulma, and Master Roshi use the Dragon Radar to locate the Dragon Ball on Gohan's hat. Goku runs off to locate Gohan.Garlic Junior's henchmen starts to eat a apple and then Gohan takes it from him and finishes it off he gets drunk. There is a little dream / song sequence with Gohan.Gohan falls asleep in this angers Nicky. The seven dragon balls are captured and Garlic Junior makes his wish. Goku notices that the clouds are darkening which means Shenlong will appear and grant Garlic Jr's wish - immortality. The Dragon then disappears. The Dragon Balls scatter and Garlic Jr i s now immortal as Goku appears at his palace.Kami appears and explains that Garlic Jr. was once trapped in the Dead Zone.
Goku goes to the main palace but three of garlic Junior's henchman appears but Goku fight them and defeats all three of them with some help from Krillin and Piccolo. Gohan then goes pee on Krillin's head.Garlic Jr fights Kami.Krillian goes to save Gohan.Piccolo fights one of Garlic Jr's henchmen and Kami and Garlic Jr continue to fight, Garlic Jr almost kills Kami but Kami beats garlic Jr.Goku continues to fight Ginger and Nicky. But Goku beats them with a Kamehameha.Kami and Garlic Jr continue to fight and Kami tries a suicide attack but then stops when he sees Goku and Picollo.Krillin continues to carry Gohan.Garlic Jr transforms into a more powerful version, becoming bigger and stronger.Goku and Piccolo attack Garlic Jr but it is too much for them. Goku takes off his weighted clothes as does Piccolo.Goku and Piccolo attack Garlic Jr and send him into the ground. He reappears and creates a Dead Zone black hole vortex.This sucks almost everything into the Dead Zone. Gohan gets angry and stands firm. Gohan unleashes all of his power and knocks Garlic Jr into the Dead Zone. Everything returns back to normal.Goku and everyone else all go home.Garlic Jr is shown in the water below trapped in the dead zone. The credits roll.