After an extremely dangerous terrorist escapes from MI-5 custody, Harry Pearce disappears, making it look as though he might have had something to do with it. MI-5 looks to Will Holloway, an ex-agent who trained under Pearce, to head into the field in order to bring him in. However, Pearce tells Holloway that he is only hiding because he is certain that someone high up within MI-5 is the one behind it, and eventually is able to convince Holloway to work alongside him to bring justice. Throughout the movie, these two are on the run from MI-5, looking for their lost terrorist, as well as trying to find out who the leak is inside of the agency. There are many different, albeit small, plotlines to follow, but they come together to make a good film that keeps you engaged.
While on the run from the agents at MI-5, Holloway has a run in with one of the ones involved in the prisoner transport. He trusts her in order to find out who the mole is within MI-5, but later is betrayed by her, although he makes it through that situation. However, she says that she was simply following orders, but won't admit who the one giving them was. Still running, Pearce ends up getting in touch with the terrorist that escaped, and wants to meet with him for the purpose of stopping his bombing plans and recapturing him. The terrorist is only willing to meet if Pearce can get his pregnant wife out of another agency's custody and reunite the two of them, to which Pearce agrees. Another speed bump comes when he retrieves his wife, but she and the child are already dead, causing Pearce and Holloway to think of a new plan. They call one of the MI-5 agents chasing them, and ask if she is able to help out by posing as the terrorist's wife, as they are to meet on a public bridge.They do this, and the terrorist has one of his men shoot the women from a rooftop, knowing it was not his wife.
Unbeknownst to the viewers, Pearce makes a deal with the terrorist to give up the location of all the bomb equipment, and MI-6 seizes it all, and Pearce and Holloway end up back at headquarters. While there, the terrorist makes his way inside the building, seeming to know all the passwords, locations of keys, and anything else needed to make their way through secure areas. Pearce is asked what he gave him in order to get him to give over the bomb materials, and he replies, "I gave them you," directing attention to the 'man in charge.' Holloway and the woman who betrayed him earlier ended up killing the rest of the terrorists, and Holloway ended up getting a clear shot to the main terrorist, killing him, and ending the major plot of the movie. Pearce sacrificed a few lives of some of the security, as well as giving the terrorists the corrupt leader in their midst, in order to prevent public loss on a much larger scale. Holloway was not a fan of his recklessness in terms of caring for the lives of innocent people, but in the end, understood that many lives were saved.
From there, it flashes to a bit of a brighter future, where Holloway is being asked to join MI-5 for his outstanding courage, and his tremendous ability in taking down the terrorists. Pearce was originally thought to have sabotaged Holloways first attempt at joining the agency, and finally admits that he did it because Holloway's father lost his life fighting for them, and he didn't want that for his son as well. Pearce and Holloway now work together as a part of MI-5, and work to protect Britain from any future threats that might come their way.