Nine years ago, between the events of the second and third films, R.C. is being swept down a storm drain after Andy forgets to bring him inside before the storm. Woody and the other toys mount a successful rescue operation, but while they are busy, a friend of Andy's mother arrives and buys Bo Peep and her lamp; despite Woody's efforts to prevent the sale, Bo reassures him that it is part of being a toy to be taken away.Two years after Andy donated his toys to Bonnie, Woody and the other toys are content in their new life. Worried that Bonnie will feel overwhelmed at her kindergarten orientation, Woody - who Bonnie has been neglecting - sneaks into her backpack, and his fears come to light. But after a male classmate bullies Bonnie, Woody covertly places a spork and other items from a trash can on Bonnie's table during arts and crafts, and she turns them into a handmade toy-spork she names "Forky". After Bonnie places Forky in her backpack, he comes to life, which scares Woody.Woody introduces him to the rest of Bonnie's toys, Forky experiences an existential crisis, believing he was made to be trash and not a toy, and the other toys prevent him from throwing himself away. On a road trip with Bonnie's family and her toys, Forky - still believing himself to be trash - jumps out of the window, prompting Woody to go after him. Woody convinces Forky of the joys of being a toy, and they journey to the RV park in a nearby town where Bonnie and her parents will be staying.Reaching the town, Woody spots Bo's lamp at an antique store. Searching for Bo inside, he and Forky encounter a doll named Gabby Gabby and her sycophant ventriloquist puppets, the Bensons. Gabby Gabby offers to take them to Bo, but soon reveals her true colors and plan: To obtain Woody's voice box since her own is broken and no child will purchase her. Woody and Forky try to escape, but Forky is captured by the Bensons. By the time Woody escapes the shop, he realizes that he has left Forky behind. Woody reunites with Bo, who has become a nomad adventurer helping lost toys find owners. With Bo's companion, a diminutive toy cop named Giggle McDimples, they take a route through a nearby carnival to rescue Forky from the antique store.Meanwhile, Buzz searches for Woody on his own, seeking guidance in the button-induced phrases from his own voice box. Buzz finds himself as a prize in a carnival booth and escapes with plush toys Ducky and Bunny. Buzz finds Woody and Bo, and they recruit Ducky and Bunny to help rescue Forky, promising they will become Bonnie's toys, along with Bo's old friend from the antique store, Duke Caboom, a Canadian stuntman toy. At the antique store, the toys' plan to rescue Forky fails. Woody, the only toy still determined to save Forky, has a falling out with the other toys and indirectly insults Bo. As Bo, Duke, Giggle, Ducky, and Bunny return to the carnival, Woody gives up his voice box to Gabby Gabby in exchange for Forky. Gabby Gabby is desperate to be adopted by Margaret (the store owner)'s granddaughter, Harmony, but Harmony is not interested in Gabby Gabby and rejects her, leaving her disappointed, and offers Woody his voice box back, but Woody insists she keeps it. Buzz returns to Bonnie's RV and cries out to retrieve Bonnie's backpack, which she left at the antique store. Woody comforts Gabby Gabby and Bo, and her gang return after a change of heart.After Bonnie returns for her backpack, the toys follow her and her parents. Buzz and Forky make it back to Bonnie through Duke's motorcycle skills, who is delighted to have Forky back. Taking Woody's advice, Gabby Gabby sees a lost little girl crying, giving her comfort, and is finally found by her parents. Ducky, Bunny, Giggle, and Duke Caboom say goodbye to Woody and leave.As Woody and Bo say goodbye, Woody becomes hesitant to return with Bonnie. With some encouragement from Buzz, Woody decides to stay with Bo and help lost toys find owners. Buzz and the gang give Woody a goodbye hug, and the two groups go their separate ways. The RV's engine starts, and the toys head into Bonnie's RV while her parents start the engine and head home. Rex asks if Woody will be a lost toy, and Buzz says that he will never be one. Buzz and Woody share one last message to each other from afar, "To infinity...and beyond." Woody and Bo Peep spend their night living together by looking at the nice carnival view and the night sky.After Woody and Bo travel with the carnival in the mid-credits scenes, one year has passed, and Bonnie entered first grade. At a newly built pier, Ducky and Bunny do one more version of their "plush rush" and spread laser eyes and superpowers, which Duke Caboom asks if they really can. At Bonnie's room, mirroring the scene where Woody introduces Forky, Jessie brings home a new friend Bonnie created: Karen Beverly, a decorated plastic knife. Instantly smitten, Forky offers to shepherd her in her journey through life as a toy instead of trash. When her first question is "How am I alive?" he is stumped, and all he could say was "I don't know".In the post-credits scene: Duke Caboom successfully jumps onto the 'I' of the Pixar logo, poses, and gives the winter Combat Carl a long-awaited high five, ending the movie.