In 1963, Louie and Corinne are getting married. Best man Philip whispers to the groom that he is in love with Corinne. This changes nothing.A year later Corinne announces she is pregnant. Corinne has also been shown outside the couple's nice house in Washington, D.C. planting a tree she names George. Louie buys Corinne diamond earrings as an anniversary present. In court, Louie argues that Judge Fenwick should not have thrown out evidence that will allow a mobster to walk. Fenwick says he must follow the law. Then Louie gets a tip from Philip, who knows Fenwick is having a secret meeting. Using a small camera, Louie hides in the woods and takes a photo of Fenwick accepting a bribe.As he excitedly approaches the restaurant where he will celebrate his first anniversary, Louie is not paying attention to the traffic. He gets hit by a car and all of a sudden everything is white. The audience sees a faint image of Louie walking, and then many people are shown. Two nicely dressed people seem to be in charge. Louie asks one of them for help. The woman is polite but asks Louis to please go to the end of the line. Louie demands to be sent back, so the woman takes him to the man who is giving inoculations, and he gets to go ahead of many others. That man can only do one thing for Louie: give him a choice of where his soul will return to. Louie wants to be as close to Washington, D.C., so the man chooses a baby about to be born in Ohio. Louie rushes off and disappears, and the man realizes he forgot to inoculate Louie, so there is the chance he will remember.In the present day, Corinne has never gotten over the loss of Louie, and she continues a number of strange routines in order to pretend Louie is still with her. Dr. Bailey is her kind therapist who is trying to get her to change these routines and accept reality. Corinne does, however, seem well-adjusted and sane otherwise.Alex is working at the Yale library when he hears a pretty girl named Miranda having difficulty because she didn't return several books on time and now, as she is about to graduate from law school, owes nearly $100 in fines which she can't pay. Alex makes up a story that will require the stern librarian to leave her post. Alex changes the records on the computer to make it look like Miranda didn't do anything wrong, and everything will be fine.Alex had met Ben Bradlee of The Washington Post, and Bradlee was so impressed with him he invited Alex to stop by anytime. Having graduated, Alex sneaks into the Post offices, pretending he is making a food delivery. Alex changes clothes and, with the help of Philip, who works there, manages to get a meeting. Bradlee isn't as impressed with this rookie as Alex thought. Despite having worked as the Yale newspaper editor, Alex doesn't have the real world experience Bradlee expects.Philip discovers Alex is living in his car and invites him to his house. Actually, it's not his house, as Philip has to use a secret key to get in. Once inside, Alex recognizes Miranda, and she knows him too. And she still seems to like him. And there is the biggest discovery of all: Miranda's mother is Corinne. All of a sudden, everything looks familiar. And the tree outside is full grown. Alex realizes he is Louie in a new body, and he remembers everything.Alex can't explain his bizarre behavior but he feels like he is going crazy. He stays the night but he has to figure out how to handle his situation. But one thing is working in his favor, if he wants to resume his life with Corinne. Despite caring for her, Philip has never been more than a platonic friend because of Corinne's inability to get over Louie.Alex visits Corinne as her workplace, the Smithsonian. Corinne is working on an exhibit featuring former first ladies. However, she needs more funding and her boss Archibald Blair expects her to get that funding. Mavis Talmadge is very rich and plans to attend an event. Alex wants to help so he too attends the event.By dancing with Mavis, Alex manages to secure the funding Corinne needs. Now it is time to tell Corinne the truth.When Alex tells Corinne who he is and tried to prove it by telling her what only Louie would know, such as the fact he gave her diamond earrings like Jackie Kennedy has in the exhibit, Corinne throws Alex out and says never to come back.Corinne later realizes Alex was telling the truth and spends time with him, but the age difference is awkward.Alex also tells Philip the truth, but they get in a fight and Philip is knocked out. Alex puts Philip in his bed and sleeps elsewhere.Eventually, Corinne is willing to have sex with Alex and says she will meet him in the bedroom where he has been staying. The next morning, Corinne realizes what has happened and now she is willing to give up Alex/Louie and marry Philip.Miranda has a job working for Judge Fenwick. Alex and Philip happen to be in the courtroom when Alex realizes who the judge is. He walks up to the judge and tells him what he knows. Fenwick dismisses Alex's allegations but Alex is persistent, finally making a scene and getting thrown out of the courtroom. He yells to Philip the meeting place Philip told Louie about all those years ago, and says to look for the camera. Alex falls down a flight of stairs and ends up out cold in the hospital. His doctor is that man who messed up all those years ago, but now he has that fancy syringe and can inoculate Alex, who doesn't remember anything about Louie when he wakes up.Alex remembers only that he had a crush on Miranda, and other events from Alex's life, but nothing from Louie's. At the wedding of Philip and Corinne, Ben Bradlee offers Alex a job because he is so impressed with how Alex brought down Judge Fenwick.