Tangerine is a film about two best friends named Sindee and Alexandria who are searching for Sindee's cheating fiancé, Chester. Sindee was recently released from jail and comes to learn that Chester has been cheating on her. The two girls go all over Hollywood searching for the prostitute that Chester has been sleeping with. Once they find Dinah at a brothel, Alexandria and Sindee take her to Alexandria's Christmas Eve performance at a bar before confronting Chester. We also learn that Alexandria has a close relationship with a cab driver named Razmik who accepts her gender identity and enjoys spending time with her. After eating Christmas dinner with his wife and his family, he lies and says that he is going to work, but instead he tries to see Alexandria's performance at a local bar. He realizes that he is too late, so he goes driving around Hollywood to look for her. After the performance, Sindee takes Dinah and Alexandria to a donut shop where Chester is. Sindee initially confronts Chester about why he didn't come and pick up when she was released from jail. She then brings Dinah in and confronts him about the cheating. He tries to defend himself, but Sindee is still very mad. Razmik eventually finds Sindee and Alexandria at the donut shop and offers to pay Sindee to join him in his cab. Chester gets upset with Razmik and they begin to argue. Suddenly, Razmik's mother-in-law enters the donut shop and confronts him, wondering why he lied about going to work. She asks if he is doing drugs and Chester tells her that he is here for the prostitutes. Razmik's mother-in-law calls her daughter to inform her of what she has just learned. Her daughter drives down to the donut shop and confronts her mother and Razmik. Everyone begins yelling at one another, so the owner kicks them all out. Just as it appears that Sindee is going to forgive Chester, he tells her that he also slept with Alexandria. She becomes so upset that she decides to leave and doesn't even want to talk to her best friend. Sindee has just learned that her best friend slept with her fiancé and is understandably very upset that Alexandria would not only do that, but keeps it a secret. She has no interest in talking to her friend, Alexandria, and tells her to just leave her alone so she can make some money. Sindee decides to look for some customers. She is approached by some men in an SUV, who throw urine on her and drive away. Alexandria is still within earshot to hear the men call Sindee transphobic slurs and drive off. Alexandria rushes over to Sindee, who is still in shock. Alexandria takes her to a nearby laundromat and helps her take off her jacket and wipe the urine off of her face and chest. She then tells Sindee to hand over her wig so that they can wash it. The scene then cuts, and we see the two of them sitting next to each other, waiting for the clothes to finish getting washed. Alexandria can tell how self-conscious and uncomfortable Sindee is without her wig. She then takes off her own wig and gives it to Sindee while they wait. Sindee takes her friend's hand and gives her a sincere smile. Synopsis by Emily K., used with permission by Michael A. Dover