In 1975, eight-year old Jean Grey accidentally causes a car accident, which claims the lives of her parents and leaves her as the sole survivor. Shortly after, she meets Charles Xavier, who brings her to the Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters at the X-Mansion.In the present day of 1992, eight years after the attacks on Earth by Apocalypse, the X-Men are now seen as heroes across the world, adored as superheroes. After the space shuttle Endeavor is critically damaged by a supposed solar flare during an STS-49 mission, the President of the United States requests Professor X and the X-Men to save the astronauts. While the X-Men manage to save the space crew, Jean is stranded in deep space and absorbs the solar flare into her body. Nightcrawler brings her body back into the X-Jet, with Jean surviving the event and her psychic powers greatly amplified as a result. However, they become uncontrollable and she accidentally unleashes her power on her fellow mutants at the X-Mansion, injuring her boyfriend Cyclops in the process.Xavier reveals that he had placed mental barriers within Jean's mind to block out the trauma of the car accident; additionally, he had lied about both of her parents' dying in the accident, as it turns out her father, John Grey, is still alive. Jean leaves the X-Mansion and returns to her family home, where she encounters her family. However, she notices that there are only photos of her mother in the house, and questions her father as to why he never looked for her following the accident.After Jean informs him that she can read minds, John intentionally recalls the entire incident mentally so that Jean could see, and it is shown that Jean rendered her mother unconscious while driving, thereby killing her. As John considered his wife the most important person in his world, he resented Jean for causing his wife's death and, upon meeting Xavier, had given her custody of Jean.The X-Jet then arrives on the street and the X-Men corner Jean, who retaliates, injuring Quicksilver and killing Mystique in the process. Jean also attacks police officers, prompting public reception towards her and mutants in general to become sour. Jean then travels to Genosha, a mutant safe haven run by Magneto, and asks him for help to prevent herself from killing more people.However, he orders her to leave after she engages in combat with U.S. military forces tasked with her arrest. Around this time, a shape-shifting alien race known as the D'Bari arrive on Earth with the purpose of harnessing the cosmic flare inside Jean in order to conquer Earth. Vuk, the leader of the D'Bari, encounters Jean and explains to her that what she absorbed was not a solar flare but in fact a cosmic energy entity that was responsible for eradicating the D'Bari home planet years ago. The power had consumed all those it came across with the exception of Jean.Back at the X-Mansion, Beast blames Xavier for Raven's death. Defecting from the X-Men, he flees the X-Mansion using the X-Jet and flies to Genosha, informing Magneto that Jean had murdered Mystique. He then joins Magneto, Ariki and Selene in traveling to New York City in order to assassinate Jean and avenge Mystique. Using Cerebro, Xavier realizes what their goal is and recruits Cyclops, Storm and Nightcrawler to save Jean's life. During the battle, both Magneto and Professor X encounter Jean, although Magneto is knocked out while Professor X is forced to walk without his wheelchair.While Xavier can no longer read Jean's mind, she can read his, and he shows her the memory he had with his father, where he expressed support and hope for Jean. The memory reasserts Jean's original personality, and she spares Xavier. She is then tempted by Vuk to transfer the cosmic energy to her; while Vuk is able to absorb some of it, she is struck by Cyclops before the transfer is completed. The military then intervenes, using collars that disable mutant powers to apprehend Professor X, Jean, Magneto, Cyclops, Storm, Nightcrawler, Ariki and Selene, while Vuk manages to escape.While on the train, one of the soldiers berates Nightcrawler, informing him that his son adored him prior to their actions. Meanwhile, Xavier informs Beast that he was wrong for what he had done to Jean, but that the real Jean still exists within; Cyclops also tells Beast and Magneto that Mystique had died believing that, and that she wouldn't have wanted them to kill Jean.The train is then attacked by Vuk and the D'Bari, who easily overpower the soldiers. Nightcrawler convinces the soldier whose son had idolized them to free them, and he does so; the X-Men and Magneto's faction proceed to team up to attack the D'Bari, although they are unable to defeat Vuk, who subdues them all.Xavier apologizes to Jean for what he had done, explaining that he just wished to give her what he deserved every child deserved - love and family. Jean then frees herself from her restraints, declaring that she would protect her family. Jean shields Magneto and her fellow X-Men while destroying the train they are on. She then swiftly disintegrates the remaining D'Bari forces before being attacked by Vuk, who begins to absorb Jean's remaining cosmic power.As Jean attempts to use the power to eliminate Vuk as well, she realizes that Cyclops is beginning to disintegrate as well. Knowing that she cannot unleash her energy on Earth without harming innocents, Jean takes a hold of Vuk and flies into space, where she reabsorbs the cosmic energy and explodes, killing Vuk and seemingly herself as well.The remaining X-Men return to New York, where the Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters is renamed the Jean Grey School for Gifted Youngsters. Xavier retires from his position as Headmaster, granting the dean to Beast, and moves to Paris, France, where he encounters Magneto, who requests they play a game of chess and offers him a home, just as Xavier had done for him before.As two start playing a flaming phoenix appears high in the sky...