Pau works as an orderly at a hospital, a job that gives him the opportunity to watch the bodies of young women that are brought to the hospital's morgue. One day he is stunned when the body of Anna Fritz, a beautiful and desirable actress, arrives. Pau cannot resist taking a picture and sending it to one of his friends, Ivan, who quickly arrives with Javi, his other friend, at the morgue to view Anna's nude body.Ivan ponders out loud if it is possible to rape a corpse and Pau replies that saliva must be used for lubrication. When asked whether he knows this from past experience, Pau confesses he has raped the corpse of a 17 or 18-year-old girl. Ivan soon decides that he wants to rape Anna's corpse and begins raping it, prompting Pau to suggest that he take a turn after Ivan. Javi is disgusted when they suggest he takes a turn and refuses. During their act of necrophilia, however, Anna suddenly returns to life and opens her eyes while Pau is raping her. She cannot move, but her eyes are open in terror. Pau screams when he realizes this and the others come into the room.The men are then faced with two choices: They can either report Anna's revival and face rape charges, as there was no way Anna could have consented to sex, or they can murder her and cover up their crimes. While Pau and Ivan both want to hide their crime, Javi pushes for them to save Anna and take responsibility for what they have done. The three men argue and Ivan unintentionally kills Javi. Without Javi to stop them, Ivan is set on killing Anna. Ivan convinces Pau that he would be an accessory to the murder of Javi, and that there is no way Anna would stay silent if she is left alive.They decide to smother her with bunched up sheets so no mark is left on her body. While Ivan disposes of the evidence, Pau cleans Anna's body and covers her in a white sheet. As he is about to leave, Pau tells Anna to pretend she is dead and it is revealed that he faked the murder. Ivan returns and they both leave the room. As they are about to get on the elevator, Ivan checks his wallet and realizes he forgot his card in the morgue. Pau unsuccessfully tries to convince him to leave rather than get his card, saying he will pick it up the next day. Ivan opens the door to see Anna putting on a hospital gown.Ivan furiously starts to choke Pau, accusing him of conspiring to blame all of it on him. He finally stops, announcing that he does not care anymore if Pau wants to go to jail. Anna sneaks up behind him and stabs him twice. He bleeds to death from the wound in his neck. Pau cries, saying that Ivan had already said he would leave. Silent, Anna repeatedly stabs Pau. Anna is then seen staring off with tears in her eyes and blood spatter on her face.