Dan was a food delivery person for Anna and her brother, Conrad. Conrad was dying of pancreatic cancer. Dan made a big presentation for the food when he delivered the food. He made Anna laughed and they were smitten with each other. After Conrad died, Dan came to make a food delivery. During his presentation, Anna started to cry. Dan came into the house, sat with Anna and they began to talk. Dan asked her what she was going to do now that Conrad was gone....where would she go? Anna said that she wasn't going to leave because it was her home. She asked Dan why didn't he leave and just run away? He told her, isn't it obvious? Anna got up, ran out of the room, then ran back in with a brown paper bag full of a substantial amount of money. She told him to take the money and runaway. She also said that she had more than enough when he protested saying that he couldn't take the money. Dan left without the money.
Anna was getting dressed for Conrad's funeral and realized that she couldn't leave the house. Her agoraphobia took over. She was in the process of making tea when she heard a vehicle pull up. She looked out the front window and saw 3 guys get out of a pickup. 1 of the guys went to the back door and broke the glass on the door to get in. Anna hid under the kitchen table. One of the guys said we know what we're looking for, she is gone for a while. One guy was the younger brother of one of the 3. One guy was a complete psychopath. He wanted to kill Anna from the beginning. He was the one that dragged her outside on the front porch. Anna was kicking and screaming the entire time. She urinated on herself while PJ was trying to calm her down. He picked her up and handed her off to his younger brother to get cleaned up. He took her upstairs and was trying to make her get changed and Dan came in. He yelled at the guy saying what are you doing. The guy said Dan's name which let Anna know that they knew one another. Anna ran away from them into a different area. With that, the other 2 came upstairs and the psychopath punched Dan in the face knocking him unconscious. When Dan came to, his hands were tied together.
The younger brother was sent looking for Anna and found her in the upstairs bathroom. The other 2 were still downstairs with Dan. They were yelling up to the younger brother asking if he got her? Anna killed him using her decorative hair comb. She dragged him down into the basement. The others heard the thumping and followed the noise where they found JP's younger brother dead.
Anna did not take this home invasion lightly. She retracted the stairs into the wall, trapping JP and the psychopath in the basement. While talking to Dan, she was very cold towards him because she didn't trust him. Dan said that he didn't see her at the funeral and was worried about her. She accused him of sending people to rob her. Her told her that she had mentioned to his friend about how nice she is and how she offered the money to him. He didn't mean anything about it. She walked Dan to the entrance of the basement door and told him to turn and jump if he trusts her. He didn't jump, so she pushed him and he fell all wrong and dislocated his kneecap.
Anna had more to show them. Divide and conquer. She killed the psychopath. Then got Dan and PJ locked in the same room. PJ discovered that the one room upstairs was decorated and designed the same exact way as the room they were locked in. He began to announce what he knew as the truth. Anna wanted him to be quiet. He had Dan come to the two way mirror to talk him into getting the gun she offered to him and killing PJ. Then and only then she would let him go.
PJ pushed Dan out of the way, took the gun and threatened to shoot Dan since Anna had killed the other 2 men. She opened the door and allowed PJ and Dan to walk out the front door. PJ brought his little brother upstairs with them. He turned towards Dan and knocked him unconscious. PJ went into the house with gasoline to set Anna and everything on fire. She and PJ fought and he overpowered her. He dragged her back upstairs into the identical bedroom and Started choking her. Dan came and said no more killing. Anna got the gun out of the front of PJ's pants and shot him
Dan and Anna walked back downstairs. Dan stood by the front door and Anna sat down in the chair. She watched the headlights of Dan's vehicle go and she stood up and walked towards the front door. She took some steps out of the door, turned towards the house, lit a lighter and threw it into the gasoline that PJ started spreading around.
Anna turned away from the house and walked away as you hear sirens in the background.