Estella was born in the early 1950s England with black and white hair which was already considered unusual (a medical condition called poliosis). In 1964, at age 12, Estella attends school but is ostracized by the other students for her unusual hair-color and nefarious attitude. Catherine (Emily Beecham), Estella's mother, immediately sees potential in her due to her creativity in fashion and her affinity for dogs, especially a stray she picks up named Buddy. Due to her rebellious nature, Catherine pulls Estella from school and they decide to move to London to make a fresh start.Catherine attends a party hosted by Baroness von Hellman (Emma Thompson) and tells Estella to stay in the car. However, Estella ends up chasing Buddy and runs afoul of the Baroness' ferocious Dalmatians. As she runs outside, she sees Catherine speaking to the Baroness and the Dalmatians end up running Catherine over a landing and off a cliff to her death. Believing that she killed her mother, Estella takes Buddy and flees into the city, though not before losing her mother's important necklace. Estella is found by two street urchins named Jasper and Horace, as well as their one eyed dog Wink, who reluctantly invite her to stay with them as she dyes her hair red.Ten years later in 1974, the adult Estella (Emma Stone), Jasper (Joel Fry) and Horace (Paul Walter Hauser) make a living as petty thieves and pick-pockets to make ends meet while Estella continues making designs for extravagant clothing at the local stores on Savill Row. For her 22nd birthday, Jasper and Horace get her an entry level job as a janitor for a Liberty fashion store. Her manager continues to belittle her as she tries to make suggestions that are swiftly ignored. While staying late one night, an inebriated Estella "fixes" one of the window displays which is seen by the Baroness in the morning. Impressed, she hires Estella to join her elite team of clothing designers. To expand her creativity, Estella also befriends the owner of a vintage clothing store named Artie (John McCrea) who admires her taste in fashion. Estella rises in the ranks and acts as a supervisor of sorts for the Baroness, but upon seeing her necklace being worn by her, and hears the Baroness' claims that it was previously stolen from her, Estella resorts to getting Jasper and Horace to help steal the necklace.Estella, wearing her natural hair color, and adopting the guise of "Cruella", crashes the Baroness' party while Jasper and Horace try to steal the necklace. However, the Baroness is wearing it and Jasper releases rats to distract the party goers. As the Baroness uses a dog whistle to command her Dalmatians, Estella comes to the realization that she used the same whistle to direct her dogs to kill Catherine. One of the Dalmatians ends up swallowing the necklace as Estella, Jasper and Horace flee in a stolen Panther de Ville.Now with a proper motive for revenge, Estella continues to taunt the Baroness by appearing at her lavish gatherings in over-the-top and stylish outfits and recruiting her childhood school friend Anita Darling (Kirby Howell-Baptiste) to use her journalistic connections to spread her publicity. Jasper and Horace begin to feel abused by "Cruella", but continue to aid her. The Baroness, growing more and more angered at Cruella, fires her lawyer Roger (Kayvan Novak) who returns to his side work as a pianist. Estella continues her taunting by kidnapping the Baroness' Dalmatians until one of the them gives up the necklace.Estella's schemes get more daring as she has Artie create more outfits and together they put on a fashion show in the Regent's Park. The Baroness, finally figuring out that Cruella is Estella, finds her hideout and captures Jasper and Horace. Estella is tied up as she burns the place to the ground while Jasper and Horace are arrested and blamed for her death. However, Estella is rescued by John (Mark Strong), the Baroness' valet, who had managed to secure the necklace which is a key to a box containing Estella's birth records. Estella finds out she is actually the Baroness' daughter. Being vain, the Baroness was disappointed with her pregnancy and asked that Estella be gotten rid of; her husband died of grief believing the baby (Estella) had died. John had the baby be taken by Catherine, who worked for the Baroness as her personal maid, and raised in secret. Angered over being lied to, Estella eventually makes peace with the truth by announcing her intent to avenge Catherine by defeating the Baroness and finally adopting the name Cruella.Cruella breaks out Jasper and Horace from jail and apologizes for not giving them credit while also recruiting Artie for one final scheme. They trick the Baroness' guests into wearing Cruella wigs and break into her party where Cruella, adopting her Estella appearance for one final time, has the Baroness come out to see her and reveals that she knows everything. The Baroness feigns being happy to reunite with her and approaches for a hug. John, Artie, Jasper and Horace have the guests go outside where they witness the Baroness shoving Estella off the landing and over the cliff. The police, having arrived thanks to Cruella, come and arrest the Baroness. Cruella uses a parachute as she fell and returns to witness the Baroness being taken away. Now having adopted the full name of Cruella de Vil, she acquires Hellman Hall (shortening it to Hell Hall) and takes her rightful place as the iconic villain.In a mid-credits scene, Cruella delivers two Dalmatian puppies named Pongo and Perdita to Roger and Anita, respectively (thus stetting the stage for the '101 Dalmatians' story). Admiring her name, Roger begins to write the song "Cruella de Vil" as a tribute to her.