2015. A Coruña, Galicia (northwest of Spain). Carlos, a bank executive happily married with Marta and the father of two children, older Sara and younger Marcos, starts the day as usual, ready to work in the bank after taking the children to the school. But when the three get into the car, a cell phone left inside the vehicle rings. On the other end, an unknown voice tells Carlos that there is a bomb under the car and demands him a great amount of money under the menace to explode it if any of them gets out of the vehicle, marking the end of the workday as the time limit to receive the money. Hiding the danger to the children, Carlos starts a race across the city calling Víctor, his friend and job partner, to get the money. When Carlos meets with Victor's wife Julia in the city by chance while he is in negotiations with Víctor himself, Carlos learns that "the stranger" is blackmailing his friend too, who rejects to pay the money after an illegal bank operation. Trying to save her, Carlos and the children watch as Julia's car explodes, killing her and forcing Carlos to runaway fast. With his car identified as a possible suspect of the explosion, police chief Espinosa starts an investigation while Marta tries to discover where her husband is and why the children aren't in the school. At the same time Alejandro, Carlos and Victor's boss from the Madrid Central Office, calls Carlos in order to force him to keep silent about the illegal operations, more worried about a possible leak to the public eye than about his employee's life. Chased by the police, Carlos is finally trapped in a public park, surrounded by Espinosa and his men, who wrongly take him as a criminal who is menacing his children with a bomb threat. The chief calls Belén, head of the explosives squad, to try dismantle the bomb. Revealing Sara and Marcos the danger they face, Carlos will have not only to convince Espinosa that he is not the enemy, but also to find a way to deceive "the stranger" to reveal his true identity, so he can stop him once and for all before he makes the car explode.—Chockys