The film opens with Captain Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger (Tom Hanks) trying to maneuver U.S. Airways Flight 1549 above New York City. The Airbus 320's engines have both failed due to a bird strike, and the pilot is trying to find a safe place to land. Sully loses control and crashes the plane into a building, resulting in a fiery explosion. This is just a nightmare, and Sully wakes up sweating and gasping for breath.It's been barely a week when Sully successfully landed Flight 1549 on the Hudson River, saving the lives of all 155 people in what the media has dubbed "The Miracle on the Hudson". However, Sully remains haunted by the incident.Sully and his co-pilot/first officer Jeff Skiles (Aaron Eckhart) are called in to meet with members of the National Transportation Safety Board, who are investigating the incident. One of the men, Charles Porter (Mike O'Malley), questions Sully over basic things such as if he had gotten enough sleep, whether or not he had taken any drugs or alcohol, or if he has been having troubles at home. The big question is why Sully chose to land on the Hudson instead of simply returning to LaGuardia Airport. Skiles defends Sully's actions as he was right next to him when the incident occurred. It's argued that the left engine had been determined to be idle and still functioning, but Sully disputes that and says that he felt both engines die.Sully keeps in touch with his wife Lorraine (Laura Linney), who lives with their two daughters. Lorraine has been worried about Sully's well-being ever since the incident.The media also looks into the incident, with Sully being questioned by reporters. He sits for an interview with Katie Couric, who asks him what it feels like to be seen as a hero. Sully says he doesn't feel like a hero. Following the interview, Sully looks out the window and experiences another hallucination of his plane crashing into the city.We see a brief flashback of Sully as a teenager when he was first learning to fly under LT Cook (Jeff Kober).Sully and Skiles meet with the NTSB members again. They inform the pilots that several tests were run on a simulator that proved that it was possible and probable to return to LaGuardia or land at nearby Teterboro Airport.We go back to the day of the incident on January 15, 2009. Sully and Skiles take off, but roughly two minutes into the flight, a large flock of geese fly head-on into the engines, causing both of them to falter. Sully maintains contact with air traffic controller, but the flight is lost from the radar. Sully then warns everyone on board to brace for impact. The flight attendants mind the passengers and repeat instructions for them to be careful. Sully and Skiles then make their descent onto the Hudson.In the present day, Sully and Skiles make an appearance on "Late Show with David Letterman" with the three flight attendants who were with them during the incident.Sully goes jogging through Times Square and runs by the Intrepid, where an F-4 Phantom is on display. We see another quick flashback of him flying that plane over a field, then had to land it as it became crippled. Afterwards, Sully goes to a bar where the bartender (Michael Rapaport) gives him a drink named after him - which is grey goose with a splash of water. Sully then watches coverage of the incident on the TV.We see another flashback to that day, but with a more extensive look at some of the passengers. There's an older woman with her elderly and wheelchair bound mother who wants to bring back a souvenir as a birthday present for their grandson/great grandson, an older man traveling with his adult son and nephew for a golf trip, who make it onto the plane before it departs, a woman with her baby boy and a polite middle-aged man sitting next to her. We even meet the flight attendants joining the trip. As the plane malfunctions and begins its descent, the passengers brace themselves for the worst. Some are texting their loved ones, while others are holding on tight. The polite man holds the woman's baby for her. The plane lands on the river, and soon starts to sink. Sully orders everyone to evacuate as the doors are opened and the rafts are inflated.Ferry Captain Vincent Lombardi (playing himself) sees the plane and notifies other Ferries and emergency response divisions as his Ferry, the "Thomas Jefferson", prepares to rescue the passengers, who have been separated onto both wings. Several passengers end up in the freezing cold water, but are recovered. The Ferry teams start pulling people on board. Some of the passengers are brought to New Jersey. The older man, who is with his nephew gets a phone call from his son, since they were separated, but they are relieved to know that they're all okay.Sully is brought to a hospital, and he is told that all 155 on board had survived. He is later brought to a hotel to stay, and one of the employees gives him a big hug, leaving him stunned. He calls Lorraine to let her know he is okay, even though she has no idea just yet of what has happened until Sully tells her to turn on the TV with their daughters.Back in the present, Lorraine calls Sully in tears as it just hits her that he was one of the 155 people on board, and how terrified she is to realize that.At the film's climax, Sully and Skiles attend a hearing with the NTSB and other officials to discuss the incident. Again, it's brought up that all test pilots in the simulators were able to successfully land at LaGuardia or Teterboro without a problem. Sully argues that what they didn't take into account was the human factor, such as being a matter of life and death, the element of surprise, the time required for analysis and decision-making, and the significantly higher stakes he and Skiles faced; the simulation pilots knew in advance of the situation that they would face and of the suggested emergency action, were able to practice the scenario several times, had no passengers to think about, and were in no danger themselves. The directors run the tests again with the apparent reaction time of 35 seconds, although Sully repeatedly mentions that he and Skiles acted within 208 seconds (3 minutes and 28 seconds). The LaGuardia rerun ends with the plane landing short of the runway onto a pier, and that to Teterboro with a crash into buildings before the airport, the latter would've definitely left no survivors. Everyone then listens to a recording of Sully and Skiles on the flight as they made their move. It's enough to prove to the board that Sully and Skiles acted properly. After a short break, Elizabeth Davis (Anna Gunn) reveals that the Plane's left engine has been recovered and it was completely destroyed in the Bird Strike as Sully had said. She comments that if Sully had been removed from the equation, everything would have gone wrong. Sully disagrees, saying that everyone on the plane, the air traffic controllers, the Ferry crews and the emergency response teams also deserve credit for the successful outcome. Davis asks Skiles what they would have done differently, and Skiles replies that he would have done it in July. Everyone laughs.The final text states that it took about 24 minutes for the ferry team to rescue everyone from Flight 1549. The end credits feature photos from the real event.