In the pre-title sequence, James Bond and his two South Korean allies infiltrate a North Korean military base belonging to Colonel Tan-Sun Moon, an army officer who is illegally selling weaponry in exchange for illegal African conflict diamonds. Bond poses as a weapons dealer named Van Bierk, rigging his briefcase of diamonds with C4. He meets Moon and his assistant, Zao. After the diamonds are handed over, Zao discovers Bond's true identity and informs Colonel Moon. Colonel Moon keeps the act up as he offers to demonstrate his new tankbuster weapon to Bond. He drops the ruse when he suddenly uses the tankbuster to destroy the helicopter Bond stole from Van Bierk.Zao informs the Colonel that his father, a General, is arriving in a few minutes for an unscheduled inspection. Fearing retribution from his father, Moon orders Bond executed, then flees in a large hovercraft. Bond detonates the C4, embedding several diamonds in Zao's face and taking out several of Moon's henchmen. Bond steals another hovercraft and chases down Colonel Moon through a nearby minefield. After a furious and violent chase, Moon's hovercraft tumbles over a waterfall. Soon after, North Korean troops arrest Bond under General Moon's orders and he is imprisoned and tortured. His head is shoved into a pool of ice water and scorpion venom is injected into his veins, with the antidote administered shortly after.Fourteen months later, Bond is released at the North/South Korean border in exchange for Zao, who had recently been captured by the British while attacking a Chinese/South Korean summit. He is sedated and taken to meet M, who informs him that his status as a 00 Agent is suspended due to her belief that he may have leaked information under duress; Bond is certain that he has been set up by a double agent within MI6. Bond tricks the medical staff into setting him free and escapes, finding himself in Hong Kong harbor. Despite his haggard appearance, Bond is checked in at a posh hotel by the manager, Chang, an old colleague and Hong Kong Intelligence agent. While beginning a tryst with a masseuse, Bond exposes Chang and his colleagues attempting to film compromising footage of them. He reminds Chang that Zao is a common enemy, and asks to help him get into North Korea so that he can avenge the Chinese agents Zao killed during his attack on the summit. Chang learns that Zao has been sighted in Cuba, and books Bond a flight there.In Havana, Bond learns from Raoul, a cigar factory owner who works as a British sleeper agent, that Zao has been traced to an island called Isla Los Organos, known for an experimental clinic which allows patients to have their appearances changed through gene therapy. On the coast, he meets a NSA agent Giacinta 'Jinx' Johnson. With her help, Bond locates Zao's room inside the clinic - where his DNA has been wiped clean, giving him an albino complexion - and briefly tortures him. Zao fights back, causing several fires, throwing the clinic into chaos. During their fight, Bond snatches Zao's pendant before Zao flees in a helicopter. Bond opens the pendant and finds a cache of diamonds, which Raoul identifies as African conflict diamonds, but which bear the crest of the company of British billionaire Gustav Graves.Bond flies to London and locates Graves at Blades, a fencing club. The two engage in a ferocious duel of swords, the intensity of which is escalated when the two men raise the stakes and injure each other, damaging part of the club in the process. Bond wins the match. Graves invites Bond to a party he is holding in Iceland for a scientific demonstration. Bond also meets Graves' fencing partner, Miranda Frost, a former Olympic athlete.In a disused London Underground station, M restores Bond's Double-0 status and offers assistance in the investigation. She informs him that Graves has strong political connections and to be cautious. Bond learns that Frost is also an MI6 agent, but she has failed to uncover Graves' connection to Zao. Bond meets with Q and receives a new watch, a glass-shattering ring and a new Aston-Martin Vanquish armed with an ejector seat, auto-targeting shotguns and adaptive camouflage that makes the car nearly invisible.Bond takes Graves up on his earlier invitation, and arrives at his ice palace in Iceland where he meets Jinx again. Later Graves begins a demonstration of his new orbital mirror satellite called "Icarus", which is able to focus solar energy on a small area and provide year-round sunshine for crop development.At midnight, Jinx infiltrates Graves' command center in the palace, but is captured by Zao. Bond meanwhile has figured out that Graves is Moon with a new identity, having undergone the same gene therapy process that Zao has. Admitting that he based his Graves persona on Bond, Moon reveals that Frost is the double agent. Bond narrowly escapes from Graves' facility in his Aston. Zao gives pursuit in his Jaguar XKR, and both cars drive first across a nearby frozen lake, battling each other with their vehicles' defense systems, then moving inside the rapidly-melting ice palace which has been targeted by Graves, using Icarus' solar-powered heat beam. Bond kills Zao by luring him under a collapsing chandelier, and then rescues Jinx from drowning.Deployed at the South Korean border, Bond and Jinx infiltrate North Korea using experimental stealth sleds and parachutes. They follow him into his airplane, which is also carrying General Moon (unaware of his son's new identity), his lieutenants, and Frost. Graves reveals the true purpose of Icarus by using its solar beam to cut a swath through the minefield in the Korean Demilitarized Zone. Once the minefield is destroyed, North Korea will have a clear path to invade South Korea, Japan, and other countries. Icarus would also destabilize the western nations by destroying any WMD fired on North Korea. Graves wears sophisticated armor with a built-in remote control, which operates the satellite. In an attempt to preserve peace, General Moon holds his son at gunpoint, but Graves disables him with the suit then shoots him.Bond advances to kill Graves, but is thwarted when one of his soldiers attacks Bond, deflecting his shot into a window, and causing the plane to depressurize. Jinx manages to stabilize the plane, but is attacked by a sword-wielding Frost, who forces her to switch the plane to auto-pilot. Whilst doing so, Jinx slyly alters the plane's heading so that it is flying directly toward the Icarus beam. During the climactic sword fight, Jinx kills Frost with a knife. In the plane's nose, Graves gains the upper hand over Bond and puts on a parachute. However, Bond pulls Graves' ripcord, causing the parachute to open prematurely so that the slipstream pulls Graves out of the plane and into one of its turbines. With the suit destroyed, Icarus instantly shuts down. Bond and Jinx escape from the plane in a helicopter it was carrying. The two of them share a romantic interlude in a remote cottage, pouring over the diamonds they retrieved from Graves' plane.