The film follows one week in the life of Paterson, a bus driver in the city of Paterson. Each day follows the same routine. Paterson, sleeping beside his girlfriend, Laura, wakes up around the same time, roughly 6:10 to 6:30. The time varies because he doesn't use an alarm clock. He also, as we find out later, doesn't own a cellphone. He eats breakfast and walks to work, composing poetry in his head. On the bus, he jots down his poetry ideas in a notebook that he shares with no one but Laura. He drives his route and visits Paterson Falls on his lunch break. When he comes home, he finds that Laura has been doing some artistic project, such as painting the drapes or painting a dress. Her artistic creations are always in black and white. Laura has many ambitions. She wants to start a cupcake business. She convinces Paterson to buy her a $600 guitar and instructional package, so she can become a country music star. (She has never played the guitar.)At the end of each day, Paterson takes their bulldog for a walk, leaving him outside the local bar while he goes in for a beer and a chat with the owner. A woman is there who is trying to ditch her boyfriend, who pleads with her to give him another chance.The routine varies a little each day. One day, he meets a girl who is writing poems in her own secret notebook. Paterson doesn't tell her that he is also a poet. She reads a poem to him which he later recites to Laura. On another evening in the bar, the boyfriend threatens to shoot himself, and Paterson disarms him. The gun, it turns out, is a toy. On Friday, his bus breaks down, and he has to call for help with a phone borrowed from a passenger.For the weekend, Laura has prepared cupcakes (decorated in black and white, naturally) to sell at the farmer's market. When she returns, she has made almost $300. They go out to celebrate, leaving the dog behind. When they return, they find that the dog has chewed up and destroyed Paterson's precious notebook. He had promised Laura to make a photocopy, but he hasn't gotten around to it.Paterson goes to the Falls to be alone with his thoughts. There he meets a Japanese tourist who is reading a volume of William Carlos Williams' poetry. The man is a poet who wants to see the hometown of Williams. Paterson does not tell him that he too is a poet. When the man leaves, he gives Paterson a gift - a blank notebook. Paterson begins composing poetry again.