Ikiru, meaning "to live", is the story of a top Japanese bureaucrat coming to terms with his impending death, and of his work to create a positive, lasting effect on a community. The story opens with an image of an X-ray. A voiceover informs the audience that unbeknownst to him, Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) has terminal stomach cancer. Kanji, Section Chief of Public Affairs, is hard at work stamping papers and overseeing his employees when the Kuroe Women's Association approaches the division for help. Their goal is to have a cesspool in their community replaced by a park where their children can safely play. Sakai (Haruo Tanaka) receives their request and asks Kanji for advice. Without a second's hesitation, Kanji instructs him to send them to Public Works.
Later that day, a burst of girlish laughter rings out in the silent room when the only female staffer, Toyo Odagiri (Miki Odagiri), reads a joke about how the bureaucracy is merely wasting their time in busywork. Sub-Section Chief Ono (Kamatari Fujiwara), full of self-righteousness, asks Toyo how she dares to laugh in the middle of a workday. Toyo explains that she has just read a funny joke. They make her read it to them; however, they do not find it amusing. The voiceover continues that Kanji has already "been dead for twenty years." Kanji reaches in his drawer for paper to use to clean his stamp, removing the top sheet. The audience sees that it is a title page of a report that he did recommending how to improve efficiency twenty years before.
Public Works sends the Kuroe Women's Association on to another division, beginning endless rounds of the bureaucracy. They finally arrive at the office of the Deputy Mayor (Nobuo Nakamura) where he, after using political speak to promise them nothing, sends them back to where they first began. The Kuroe Women's Association returns to Public Affairs; however, Kanji has taken the day off to visit a physician. Sakai, not remembering them, again directs them to Public Works. In frustration after facing rejection yet again, the women loudly complain as they turn to leave. Chastened, an apologetic Sakai follows them, recommending that they file a written request.
Kanji is in the waiting room at the medical center when the name of a patient rings out over the loudspeaker. A man moves closer to confide in Kanji that the man who just left is dying of stomach cancer. He tells Kanji the symptoms, which terrify Kanji because they resemble his own. The man explains that the physicians here do not tell their patients the truth, and he tells Kanji what they will say instead if you are dying of cancer. Visibly shaken, Kanji listens as the man states that if they say it is only an ulcer, no need for surgery, and eat whatever you like, you have less than a year to live. He continues, once you start vomiting, you have only three months left. When Kanji finally gets to see the doctor, the physician gives him the diagnosis of an ulcer, explains that there is no need for surgery, and tells Kanji to eat whatever he would like. Kanji drops his coat in horror, remembering the man's words. As the nurse picks up his coat, Kanji begs the doctor to be honest with him and to admit that he has cancer. The doctor instead denies Kanji an honest diagnosis. Dejectedly, Kanji lowers his head to the table.
Kanji is a widower with a son he has raised alone since boyhood. Kanji adores his beloved son Mitsuo (Nobuo Kaneko) and rushes home to both tell Mitsuo and to derive comfort from him. Mitsuo is not home, so a shaken Kanji huddles on the floor in the dark, waiting for the son he adores. Unaware that he is waiting there in the dark, Mitsuo and his wife Kazue (Kyoko Seki) walk into the room carrying on a conversation about how they cannot wait to inherit Kanji's money. In despair, Kanji listens as they discuss how they want access to his money now so that they can finally buy a home of their own. When Mitsuo turns on the light, they see a heartbroken Kanji. In tears, Kanji runs downstairs to his own room, his faith in Mitsuo shaken.
Perplexed, the Public Affairs employees send a staffer to Kanji's home because, after 30 years of perfect attendance, Kanji has not shown up for work or even called in sick for five days. Shocked, Kazue calls her husband to tell an equally perplexed Mitsuo that even though Kanji has been leaving faithfully every single day, he has not gone to work. Kanji is passing his days in a bar, drinking to forget his troubles. A writer at the bar befriends Kanji, and after learning that Kanji is dying, invites him for an evening of "enjoying life." They go to a red-light district where a drunken Kanji despairingly sings the theme song about how quickly life passes.
Determined to resign from the bureaucracy, Toyo hunts for Kanji, finally running into him by happenstance on the street. After she explains that working in the bureaucracy is killing her soul, he agrees to stamp her resignation letter. She goes home with him so that he can get his stamp. His housekeeper (Yoshie Minami) witnesses Toyo grabbing his hands in excitement. As Toyo prepares to leave his home, Kanji asks if he might go with her; she agrees. From their window, a surprised Mitsuo and Kazue witness Kanji and Toyo leaving together. Kanji convinces Toyo to spend the day with him, and they forge a friendship.
Kanji decides to try again to tell Mitsuo about his terminal cancer. Mitsuo, however, misunderstands about Kanji's relationship with Toyo. Before Kanji can confide in him, a furious Mitsuo demands Kanji protect his inheritance from Toyo. This incident, combined with the conversation he previously overheard, leads Kanji to believe that his son cares more about his money than about him.
Toyo's hectic new position in industry leaves her stressed; however, Kanji does not see this. He continues to spend time with her searching for insight into how she manages to be so full of life. Toyo explains that she finds fulfillment by making toy rabbits for the children of Japan. Kanji has a revelation, and he leaves hopeful; however, Toyo despairingly realizes that she is the one not truly living. Kanji, remembering the cesspool, decides to create a lasting effect in Kuroe.
Five months after his visit to the medical center, Kanji dies. At his funeral, the Kuroe Women's Association pays its respects, sobbing in grief. A police officer shares that he saw Kanji swinging in the park the night he died, joyfully singing. In flashbacks, we see Kanji visiting to assess Kuroe; working tenaciously to overcome every barrier; and chuckling when the Yakuza threaten his life, the life of a dying man, due to his interference in their plan to turn Kuroe into a red-light district. As the bureaucratic staffers reminisce, they finally credit Kanji with building the park. This leads the staffers to drunkenly vow to follow Kanji's example.
A group of citizens approach Public Affairs for help, however, when Sakai asks newly appointed Section Chief Ono for advice, he directs them to another division. Kimura jumps to his feet reproachfully, wanting to remind Ono of the vow made at Kanji's funeral. Ono stares aggressively at Kimura until he rights his chair and sinks down at his desk, buried under a mound of paperwork. Weighed down with despair, Kimura stops on the bridge over Kuroe as he makes his way home. He pays his respects to Kanji as he watches the children of Kuroe happily playing in their new park. He remembers how Kanji overcame barriers to build this safe place for the children of Kuroe to grow and thrive. As he walks on, the viewer has the honor of determining whether he will give in to pressure, or if he will instead strive to overcome barriers, following Kanji's example, and help an oppressed group.