in 1998, 3 years after the events of Michael Jordan's adventure with the Looney Toons, LeBron Raymone James wants to play basketball. but at the same time, he enjoys playing games on his Game-Boy. his coach convinces him that the games he play that aren't basketball is distracting him from what he is really good at and that he has to quit gaming if he wants to work harder, LeBron takes his advice and scraps the Game-Boy.23 years pass since the scrapping of the Game-Boy and 18 years pass after the events of DJ Drake's adventure with the Looney Toons, now a Basketball champion, NBA superstar and global icon LeBron Raymone James Sr. wishes for both of his sons, Darius and Dominic, to follow in his footsteps, but Dom, a child prodigy in computer software, instead dreams of becoming a video game developer. LeBron's wife, Kamiyah, advises him to respect Dom's wish. While showing an interest in Dom's game, Dom discovers a glitch in his character after performing a specific move which causes the character to be deleted and the game to crash, to his chagrin.Later, LeBron is invited with his family to the Warner Brothers Animation Group Inc. company studio in Hollywood to discuss a movie deal to experiment with the latest film-making technology, but LeBron dismisses the idea, while Dom shows an interest in the studio's software, particularly its state-of-the-art algorithm. Dom develop and expresses an interest in a future with Warner Bros, leading to a blowup argument with his father at basketball camp when LeBron refuses to let him give up on the sport. meanwhile, the dark evil living computer Artificial Intelligence algorithm named King Alfred G. "Al-G" Rhythm who lives in a top secret digital cyber-space galaxy called the "Seververse" inside the computer of the Warner Bros' Computer Laboratory Room which holds all of the Warner Bros' Cinematic Universes, who has secretly become self-aware and desires more recognition from the world, lures the two to the basement and traps them in virtual reality in the Seververse. Taking Dom as his prisoner, he orders LeBron to assemble a basketball team made entirely from fictional characters owned by Warner Bros to compete against his own team in a day's time, telling him that he will only be released if he wins, and sends him through the virtual cyberspace of the Seververse where he lands in the Toon Cinematic Universe. Meanwhile, Al-G talks to Dom and begins to turn him against his father by playing on his resentments and helping him develop and upgrade himself and his game, which he secretly intends to use against LeBron.LeBron finds Toon World deserted save only for Bugs Bunny, who explains that Al-G persuaded the rest of the Looney Tunes to leave their world and explore other realities and cinematic universes. Using the Martian Maggot UFO spaceship belonging to Marvin the Martian and his Martian dog K-9, LeBron and Bugs travel to different Cinematic Universes based on Warner Bros properties such as DC Comics, Harry Potter, Matrix, Casablanca and Game of Thrones to locate and recruit the rest of the Looney Toons, such as Daffy Duck, Lola Bunny and Porky Pig, into the "Toon Squad."Over Bugs' objections, LeBron insists on coaching his new players on the fundamentals of basketball and gets quite bossy to try make them play like him. The Tune Squad meet with Al-G's team, the Goon Squad, comprised of monstrous upgraded CGI avatars of several active professional basketball players with monstrous superpowers and led by Dom. Al-G also upgrades the Toon Squad, transforming them into real animals. To further the stakes, Al-G livestreams the game and abducts countless viewers, including LeBron's family, into the Seververse's virtual reality, and says that if the Toon Squad loses, the viewers will remain there trapped for eternity and the Looney Toons will be deleted permanently.The Goon Squad easily dominate the first half of the game, using their powers to score extra points. During the break, Sylvester attempts to recruit former Tune Squad member Michael Jordan, but accidentally locates Michael B. Jordan instead, mistakening him for his similar name. LeBron realises his mistake not to make them use his skills and allows Bugs to devise the strategy for the second half, using their loony cartoon physics to catch up with the Goon Squad. During a respite, however, LeBron confronts Dom and tells him he no longer wants to stand in the way of his dream.Al-G assumes control of the Goon Squad and uses his own abilities to make them seemingly unbeatable. Dom suddenly discovers the only way to win the game is to use the move he previously showed LeBron, even though he will be deleted. However, during the final seconds of the game, Bugs performs the move, sacrificing himself and enabling Dom to help LeBron score the final point, winning the game and posterizing Al-G into a poster which is later destroyed by his assistant Pete, erasing him forever. The James family and the abducted citizens are returned to the real world, while in Tune World, Bugs bids farewell to his friends before he disappears.In the real world, LeBron comes to see his family in a different light and supports Dom's decision to become a video game designer. After dropping him off at E3, he is approached by Bugs, who actually survived due to the fact that as a fictional cartoon-animated character, his abilities meaning that he can't really "die". He asks LeBron to put him up for a little while until he can find a way back to Toon World. LeBron agrees, but Bugs goes on to ask if he can invite the rest of the Looney Toons over to LeBron's place as well.