Dalmazio, Amalio and Egisto Siraghi are three cousins unaware of each other, who struggle to live honestly. Dalmazio is a security guard at a bank, Amalio is a dog sitter, while Egisto is a street vendor and window cleaner for cars stopped at traffic lights. All three show little professional competence and little luck.
The chance of a lifetime presents itself to them when they are suddenly contacted by the wealthy Aliprando Siraghi, an elderly delinquent who has ended up in a wheelchair who reveals himself to be their distant uncle. He proposes to co-opt them into his activities as a thief, convincing them to be their only chance to emerge from mediocrity and poverty. The three are subjected to long and hard training, consisting in both physical-athletic preparation and simulations of thefts and even interrogations. At the end of this training, also characterized by many comic ups and downs, Aliprando sends his grandchildren to make a first shot in a shopping center. However, they are intercepted by some agents warned by a tip and end up in prison for six months. At the end of the period of detention, Aliprando, who awaits them at the exit, confesses that it was he who called the police in order to have them arrested and, once in the cell, stimulate them to strengthen their criminal temperament. The three, resentful, decide to abandon their uncle's gang, but realizing that they cannot resume an honest life, given the now dirty criminal record, Dalmazio, Egisto and Amalio return to their steps. This time things are different: the gang scores one hit after another, developing a marked ability in the various forms of fraud and theft.In an attempt to carry out a theft in the villa of a well-known entrepreneur, Aliprando thinks that one of the nephews can seduce the beautiful maid Marisa, so that he can take her house key and make a cast. The choice falls on the young Egisto, who however, at the mercy of the senses, instead of seducing is seduced and Marisa sneaks into Casa Siraghi that same night. Discovered by Aliprando, he notices her abilities as a thief and involves her in another blow, punctually and effectively perpetrated against a fur manufacturer.Meanwhile Egisto has fallen in love with Marisa and is determined to marry her. The uncle initially opposes, believing that married life can inhibit the physical abilities, indispensable for a criminal; after which he agrees to the wedding, on condition that until the end of the "working year" he and Marisa do not have sexual relations. Egisto reluctantly agrees.Once the wedding is celebrated, the gang organizes the coup of the century: the theft at the Van Cleef jewelry store. The plan is positively carried forward, until, due to a distraction by Amalio, the sophisticated alarm of the exercise goes off causing the intervention of the police. Once out of the sewers, the three manage to hide in the nearby Teatro Eliseo, coming out dressed as a woman and wearing their newly stolen jewels, thus deceiving the policemen who are waiting for them in the foyer.The clan can thus celebrate the happy end of the corporate year, and Egisto consummates his marriage with Marisa. But, in the champagne used to toast and which he did not drink, Aliprando inserted a powerful sleeping pill. Dalmazio, Egisto and Amalio wake up after four days to find the villa completely empty