Saike Demon, an ogre that works for KIng Yemma becomes distracted from his job of guarding the Soul Cleansing Machine of Other World, causing it to become overfull. As a result, the machine explodes, the smog consuming the young ogre and transforming him into a seemingly innocent and playful, but powerful giant called Janemba. He places a barrier around the Other World, preventing King Yemma from maintaining order between the realms, consequently allowing the evil souls of Other World such as Frieza to re-enter the land of the living. Gohan and Videl go to defend the city from the villains after receiving a distress call.Trapped within the Check-In Station of the Other World, King Yemma directs Goku and Pikkon to Janemba, who is sitting on the roof. After Janemba refuses to take down the barrier as ordered by Pikkon, Goku lures the giant down away from the Check-In Station to the depths of Hell while Pikkon tries to free King Yemma.On Earth, an army of deceased past villains have returned with Frieza as their leader. Gohan manages to make quick work of Frieza, killing him with a single punch, causing the other villains to scatter across the city. Meanwhile, Goten and Trunks gather up the dragon balls, meeting with Bulma and the others shortly after. Summoning Shenron, they wish for the restoration between the living and deceased worlds, however Shenron is unable to grant such a wish, saying that only King Yemma has that type of power.Janemba engages Goku in a fight, eventually gaining the upper hand. Despite Janemba having a playful and childish demeanor, Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan 3, knowing that Janemba poses a real danger to both worlds. Goku completely overpowers the giant, seemingly defeating him. However, Janemba transforms into a smaller, more humanoid like, but far more powerful form. Goku re-engages the demon, but is now completely outmatched. As Janemba is about to kill Goku, Vegeta, now having regained his physical body saves him. Both Saiyans are still no match for Janemba, and are forced to retreat. Goku suggests fusing, but Vegeta refuses due to his pride, saying he would rather die than fuse with a low-class Saiyan. After a short time of deliberation, Vegeta finally agrees to fuse with Goku. After a failed attempt at fusion, Pikkon stalls Janemba, giving Goku and Vegeta time to properly fuse. As Janemba incapacitates Pikkon, the Saiyans successfully perform the fusion dance to transform into Super Gogeta. The ultimate Saiyan warrior completely obliterates Janemba, using his ultimate move: Stardust Breaker to defeat the demon once and for all, cleansing him of all evil back to his normal form, Saike Demon. Once the fusion of Gogeta ends, Goku and Vegeta farewell each other before Vegeta reverts back to his spirit form.Meanwhile on Earth, much of the escaped villains have been defeated. Goten and Trunks also fuse to transform into Gotenks after sensing their dads fuse. They defeat the final wave of villains and the order between the living and deceased worlds is restored.