Dr. Gero has been killed by his own creations, Android 17 and 18. Following Gero's death, it is revealed that he had copied his own consciousness into a supercomputer, with the intention of creating a new ultimate android.Cutting to the present day, Goku, Gohan, Chi-Chi, Krillin, Master Roshi, Oolong and Future Trunks go out to eat at a restaurant. During this time, Dr Gero's new Androids 14 and 15 are deployed and begin to cause destruction throughout the city. Oblivious to their surroundings, they head straight towards the restaurant and attack Goku. The Saiyan warrior briefly fights the Androids, along with Future Trunks who joins in the fray. Following extreme collateral damage across the city, Goku and Future Trunks take the battle to an arctic area to avoid harming innocent civilians. Gohan and Krillin follow them, much to Chi-Chi's dismay.Goku and Trunks manage to hold their own against the two androids, until a third suddenly appears bearing the Red Ribbon Insignia. The third android is revealed to be the strongest of the three, Android 13, explaining that although Dr. Gero was killed, his consciousness lives on in his programmed supercomputer to continue his quest of killing Goku and exact his revenge for the Red Ribbon Army. 13 fights Goku, 14 fights Future Trunks, and 15 fights Vegeta who arrives shortly after to save Goku from death. Once being outmatched by the Androids, Goku, Future Trunks and Vegeta all transform into Super Saiyans, with 14 and 15 being destroyed. Piccolo also arrives after saving Gohan from 13's attack, and engages the android, who manages to hold his own against both Piccolo and Goku. Vegeta, Future Trunks, Goku and Piccolo surround 13, ready to destroy him once and for all. Irate, 13 proceeds to absorb 14 and 15's main core components and transforms into the monstrous Super Android 13. With this new form, no one can match 13, as they are all pummeled about. Seeing no other way to beat him, the other fighters (including Gohan and Krillin) engage 13 to give Goku time for him to charge the Spirit Bomb. Goku absorbs the Spirit Bomb and effortlessly destroys 13. With the final android's demise, Dr. Gero's supercomputer shuts down for good.