Depicting an alternate future, Goku dies from a heart virus and the Z-Fighters are killed by the destructive Androids 17 and 18 six months later. With Piccolo killed, Kami also dies, rendering the Dragon Balls unusable, destroying all hope of the Z-Fighters being revived.It is now Age 780, thirteen years since the Z-Fighters were killed. Gohan, now a twenty-three year old Super Saiyan, is a capable fighter and begins to train the son of Bulma and Vegeta, fourteen year old Trunks. Gohan focuses on helping Trunks unlock his potential to transform into a Super Saiyan, and although coming very close, Trunks is unable to fully maintain the form for long periods of time. One day, Gohan and Trunks are alerted to the androids, who have attacked the amusement park, Super World. Gohan transforms into a Super Saiyan and fights Android 17, quickly gaining the upper hand until Android 18 joins the fight and overwhelm him. Although Trunks has not completed his training, he comes to Gohan's aid, attempting to fight Android 18 but is easily defeated. As the female android is about to kill Trunks, Gohan manages to save him and retreats into the debris of the now destroyed amusement park. Unable to draw them out, the androids bomb the entire amusement park in the hopes that Gohan and Trunks will be killed in the blast. Barely surviving, Gohan loses his arm, carrying an unconscious Trunks home where they eventually recover and resume training.During a training session, Gohan and Trunks are alerted to an explosion hitting the city of Pepper Town. Knowing that it's the androids, Gohan pretends to agree to allow Trunks to fight, but knocks him out before the battle begins in order to protect him. Surprise attacking Android 17, the one armed Super Saiyan fights both Androids, managing to put up a good fight. Ultimately, Gohan is overpowered and killed. Trunks wakes up, hurrying to the city to find Gohan's body in the rain. Enraged by the death of his friend and mentor, Trunks transforms into a Super Saiyan for the first time.It is now Age 783, three years later. As Bulma is working on a time machine, Trunks is convinced he does not need anyone from the past help him defeat the androids, who are later announced on the radio to be attacking Bridgetown. Trunks finds the Androids amongst the destroyed city, and battles them, only to be beaten and left for dead. He awakens by his mother's side, understanding that he must travel back in time and deliver the medicine Goku needs in order to prevent him from dying of the heart virus. After recovering from his injuries, Bulma farewells his son, who departs in the time machine, hoping to prevent their future from never happening.