Samantha Kingston wakes on at 6:50 am on February 12, known as Cupid's Day. She is picked up by her friends, queen bee Lindsay Edgecombe, Ally Harris and Elody, who are excited about Sam's plans to lose her virginity to her boyfriend Rob Cokran that night. During a class lecture on Sisyphus, students distribute roses, with Sam getting one from Rob and another from a boy named Kent McFuller, a former grade school friend who is in love with her. Kent invites her to a party at his house, but she's unenthusiastic. During lunch the girls make fun of Juliet Sykes, an outsider girl who they view as a "psycho". At the party, Juliet shows up. Lindsay confronts her and the two fight, resulting in many of the guests dousing her with beer. Humiliated, Juliet leaves in tears. As Sam and her friends are driving back from the party, the car hits something and crashes, apparently killing them.Sam wakes in her room on Cupid's Day again. Thinking the previous day was just a nightmare, Sam continues on with her day but finds that the same events occur, and they again crash after leaving the party. Sam wakes up on the same day again. Realizing she's in a time loop, she convinces the group to have a sleepover at Ally's instead of going to the party. They avoid the crash, but find out later in the night that Juliet committed suicide, with Sam also discovering that Lindsay and Juliet were once best friends. Even though Sam manages to avoid the crash, she continues to live through the same day over and over again.Realizing that nothing she does matters, she starts doing whatever she wants, first airing her grievances with everyone she knows, then trying to spend more quality time with the ones she loves. During these loops, she attempts to make amends with Anna Cartullo, a student she had bullied and becomes closer to Kent. After an unsatisfying first sexual experience with Rob, Sam is comforted by Kent and remembers their earlier friendship.In another loop, Sam and Kent share a kiss at the party, with Kent recalling how she had heroically defended him from a bully after his father died and that he had resolved to one day be her hero. She hears the fight between Lindsay and Juliet from the hall and chases after her through the woods. Sam tries to apologize and learns from Juliet that Lindsay's misery from her parents' fighting and divorce caused her to develop Nocturnal enuresis. When the two were on a camping trip and Lindsay wet her sleeping bag, she blamed Juliet and had been bullying her ever since. Juliet commits suicide by running in front of Lindsay's car, horrifying Sam, and making her realize that it was Juliet who was hit by the car on the original day. Sam wakes up again with a sense of calm and understanding, knowing what she must do to end the loop. She resolves to be kind and considerate as she goes about her day. She sends roses to both Juliet and Kent, breaks up with Rob and tells her friends why she loves them. At the party, she kisses Kent and tells him she loves him. She again intervenes to save Juliet, but when Juliet attempts to run into traffic, Sam pushes her out of the way at the last second and is killed by a truck. As she dies, Sam remembers all the good times she has had. Sam's spirit sees Juliet standing over her body saying that Sam saved her; Sam states, "No. You saved me."