The U.S. Los Angeles class submarine USS Tampa Bay vanishes while shadowing the Russian Akula-class submarine Konek in the Arctic. Rear Admiral John Fisk (Common) sends the Virginia-class submarine USS Arkansas, under the command of newly-promoted and unorthodox Commander Joe Glass (Gerard Butler) to investigate.At the same time, a Navy SEAL team under the command of Lieutenant Bill Beaman (Toby Stephens) is sent in to discreetly observe the Russian naval base in Polyarny, Murmansk Oblast, but their mission is swiftly complicated when Martinelli (Zane Holtz), the team's new designated marksman recruit, is rendered injured during the HALO drop. When they arrive at the naval base, they witness defense minister, Admiral of the Fleet Dmitriy Durov (Mikhail Gorevoy), conducting a coup d'état and taking Russian President Nikolai Zakarin (Alexander Dyachenko) prisoner, and swiftly realize that Durov intends to trigger a war. Their location is almost discovered by the Russians during a radio intercept check, the SEALS manage to hide away undetected. Martinelli is injured in the leg by gunfire from a Russian officer who fired stray bullets into their hiding location forcing the team to leave him behind.Meanwhile, Arkansas discovers the destroyed Tampa Bay, and also finds the sunken Russian submarine Konek damaged in a manner that suggests internal sabotage rather than external attack. They are attacked by another Russian Akula submarine, Volkov, that has been hiding under an iceberg, but Glass is able to destroy the ambusher and rescue Russian survivors from Konek, including its commanding officer, Captain 2nd rank Sergei Andropov (Michael Nyqvist).Back at base, the U.S. government learns about the coup. Admiral Charles Donnegan (Gary Oldman) recommends preparing for war, while Fisk suggests that Arkansas be sent to rendezvous with Beaman's team after they have rescued Zakarin. Glass manages to convince the reluctant Andropov to help, and with Andropov's knowledge of the minefield around the base, Glass navigates Arkansas near the base undetected. Meanwhile, Beaman's team, with the help of Russian Presidential Security Service Agent Oleg (Yuri Kolokolnikov), who, the SEAL team found by the shoreline of the base wounded after being shot earlier by Durov's men when he tried to stop Durov from holding Zarakin hostage and executing his fellow agents and throwing him and their bodies in the water, infiltrate the base and succeed in retrieving President Zakarin, but lose two teammates, Devin Hall (Michael Trucco) and Matt Johnstone (Ryan McPartlin), in the process. Oleg keeps the renegade Russian military at bay giving Beaman and Zakarin a chance to escape. Oleg is mortally shot multiple times by the Durov's soldiers but he sacrifices himself using hand grenades and mocks the soldiers by having the pulled off safety pins around his middle fingers and flips them off. He is killed in the explosion and takes a few soldiers with him. Beaman delivers the injured president to Arkansas's deep-submergence rescue vehicle, then goes back alone for Martinelli saving him from Russian soldiers about to execute him during a capture.As U.S. and Russian fleets face off for battle, Arkansas sustains further damage when they are attacked by Andropov's old ship-a heavily armed destroyer now commanded by Captain Vlade Sutrev (Ilia Volok), a member of Durov's conspiracy-but Andropov is able to communicate a message affirming that President Zakarin is aboard the submarine. When Durov orders his forces at the base to fire missiles at the surfaced Arkansas, Glass refuses to take action, recognizing that firing back at the Russians could start the war he is trying to stop. In the last seconds, Andropov's old crew mates defy orders and destroy the incoming missiles with the close-in weapon system before they can strike Arkansas, and subsequently destroy Durov's naval base headquarters with their missiles. With the war averted, Glass docks Arkansas to the Russian naval base to return Zakarin and Andropov's surviving crew to their country. Glass and Andropov bid farewell and confirm their respect for each other. Beaman returns with an injured Martinelli, and Arkansas's crew travels back to the U.S.