Small-time Milanese gangster Ugo Piazza is released from prison after three years. He is immediately harassed by his old gang, led by a powerful American launderer known simply as "The Americano" (or "The Mikado" in the English dub), who believe that he stole 30,000 US dollars during a robbery shortly before his arrest. Piazza emphatically denies the theft, even under coercion from The Americano's right-hand man Rocco. His girlfriend, go-go dancer Nelly Bordon, also believes he stole the money, as does the police commissario, who unsuccessfully attempts to turn him informant.Piazza meets his former godfather Don Vincenzo, now a blind old man, and his sole remaining capo Chino. Though Rocco mocks Vincenzo's authority, they still hold a begrudging respect for Chino, who has refused to leave his godfather even after everyone else has. The Americano gives Piazza an ultimatum to return the money and resume working for him, but he still insists he doesn't have it and doesn't know who does. Paranoid about more, similar thefts, Rocco begins killing off his money couriers.An exchange Piazza is sent on is crashed by a mysterious assailant in a white scarf (who has been following Piazza since his release), who kills their client and steals the money. The Americano sends Rocco and Piazza to kill the men he believes responsible, but when they arrive they're revealed to be Chino and Don Vincenzo. Piazza refuses to kill his former godfather, but Rocco coldly shoots the old man, while Chino narrowly escapes. The Americano has Piazza beaten for his insubordination, but before he can be killed, Piazza manages to convince him that he doesn't know where the $30,000 are or who stole them, but implicates Rocco and his crew in the theft.The Americano retreats to his rural villa with his bodyguards, including Piazza, but is shot and killed in an ambush by a vengeful Chino. Piazza turns his gun on the Americano's men and finishes them off, before Chino dies of his injuries. Piazza travels to an abandoned church and retrieves the $30,000 - revealing he'd orchestrated everything to kill the Americano and keep his money unabated. However, he's picked up by police for driving with an expired license and forced to go to the station for an interview.While in the waiting room, Piazza runs into Rocco (who's being questioned for the shootout at the Americano's house). Rocco, seeing the bag containing the money, tells Piazza he's impressed and offers that the two become partners. Piazza turns him down and is released. He heads to Nelly's house with the money, planning for the two to run away together. She reveals that she had conspired with her secret lover Luca, one of Rocco's crew and the man in the scarf, to get the money from Piazza for themselves. Luca shoots Piazza, but he manages to kill Nelly with a single punch before expiring. Rocco, who had followed Piazza home, bursts in and beats Luca to death in a fit of rage for his betrayal. The police, who had in turn followed Rocco, drag him away from Luca's bloodied corpse.