Nathan is the new student in town, his father is a chief of police and his mother has passed away. Not long after arriving at the school he is invited to a big class party, but he sneaks out to the greenhouse where he meets up and kisses another boy - the first kiss for both of them, but someone saw them and took a picture and posted it online.Nathan's world quickly falls apart, he is forced to come out of the closet to his father, who at first rejects him, and he refuses to tell his classmates who the other boy is, which has the entire school in an uproar. As the days go by, Nathan is getting physically abused and his father is getting colder, although the father confides in a co-worker that he didn't expect to react this way and wants to repair relationship with his son.Meanwhile, after many ignored messages, Louis decides to meet him and we learn that he was the other boy, even though he has a girlfriend named Laura. Louis has seriously withdrawn from even talking to Nathan, but Nathan reminds him that whoever took the picture knows that he was the other boy.Louis later learns that Laura was the one who took the picture and she apologizes, she didn't think it would get that far. When Nathan is gay bashed at school, Louis takes part in the beating and Nathan makes his way home. When his father sees him they reconcile and Nathan now wants nothing to do with Louis.When a Lesbian teacher sees the beating that Nathan got, she comes out of the closet and lectures the class and tells Nathan he was in the right. Nathan then goes to confront Luis in school, but that doesn't get that far. He then goes and confronts the bullies who beat him up, but when the refuse to do anything in front of their classmates, they back down and leave Nathan alone after this.Around this time Louis' parents accidentally discover that he has been watching gay porn on his computer and his father becomes enraged. The father believes that he can convince his son to be straight by locking him in his room until he sees the error of his ways.Louis is going through a great deal of turmoil trying to figure out his life and lies to his parents and tells them that he's not gay, but when his father checks his phone he sees only calls to Nathan and none to Laura. His parents then give him the silent treatment and refuse to let his younger brother talk to him. Louis decides to run away.He goes to see Laura and then goes to the abandoned factory where he and Nathan had met before and was going to commit suicide, but Nathan and his dad arrive and save him and take him home with them for the night. Louis and Nathan spend hours talking and Louis confides that he's always been different from the other boys, but tried to hide it due to his parents.The next morning his father picks him up and locks him in his room again. After the father goes to work, his mother finally finds her courage and breaks down Louis' door and she then takes her sons and leaves. She goes to confront her husband, but he can't see what he's done is wrong and she leaves him and takes her sons to go to live with her parents.A short time later, Louis is returning to take part in a box competition and when he arrives on the train, he and Nathan run to each other and kiss openly and for the first time in the movie, Louis smiles.During the completion, Louis has lost his desire to box, but when he sees his father come in the back of the room, he rallies and wins the completion. After that, as the rain starts to fall, Louis runs through the parking lot looking for his father and while the father is happy he won, he won't speak to his son. When Louis asks if his father is proud of him, he speeds off.Nathan's father, who was following, is there to guide Louis back into the celebrations and told him that his father needs more time.