Chapter 1 (Outing)
It is spring of 1999. Kim Young Ho stumbles upon a picnic spot at Garibong Peak, where his old friends are enjoying a sort of a reunion. They are dancing and singing, while Young Ho looks dishevelled in his grey suit. When the group recognises Young Ho and invites him to join them, he sings "Na Eoddeokhae" (What Can I Do) out of tune and rhythm.
He increasingly exhibits strange behaviour - yelling and walking into people - and eventually climb onto the railroad tracks. At this point, Young Ho's old friends don't really care, though they do understand that he's going to kill himself. One man goes after Young Ho out of concern, begging him to come back down. On the railroad, Young Ho screams, "I want to go back again!". Young Ho's scream breaks through the deafening roar of an approaching train, and the film begins a journey from Young Ho's suicide to the past.Chapter 2 (Camera)
It is three days before Young Ho stands on the railroad tracks. Young Ho is a 40-year-old middle-aged man who lost his house due to the IMF crisis. Young Ho wanders aimlessly while driving his only property, a car, until he hears a broadcast on the radio that there will be a reunion picnic at Garibong Peak in three days.
He procures a pistol and tries to commit suicide, but it does not fire. He makes up his mind to kill just one person (out of many) who ruined his life. Young Ho heads to find his ex-wife, Yang Hong Ja, but is coldly turned away at the door. He returns home, which is an unsightly shack next to the highway.
The same night, a mysterious man appears, identifying himself as husband of Young-ho's first love, Soon Im. He delivers the news that she wishes to see him, to which Young Ho follows. Picking up a jar of peppermint candies on the way, Young Ho finds out that Soon Im is hospitalised and in a coma. Soon Im's husband gives Young Ho a camera, a gift from Soon Im, but Young Ho sells the camera for 40,000 won. Young Ho eats bread and milk, exposing the film to light so that he can never see it again.Chapter 3 (Life is Beautiful)
It is summer of 1994. Young Ho is a 35-year-old furniture store owner. He finds out that his wife, Hong Ja, is having an affair with her driving instructor. He storms into the motel and brutally assaults Hong Ja and her lover. Afterwards, he has sex with Miss Lee, an employee from his store.
Young Ho has a meal with Miss Lee at a restaurant, until he comes across a young boy. Young Ho seems to know the boy's father, but they appear as if they were in an uncomfortable relationship with each other. The two meet again in the restaurant's bathroom, and Young Ho says to the man, "Life is beautiful. Isn't it?" Cut to a scene with Young Ho and his co-workers at his home.
The group is holding a housewarming party for Young Ho. When Hong Ja offers to pray and starts sobbing uncontrollably, Young Ho leaves the house without saying anything. Hong Ja and her daughter run after him, crying out for him.Chapter 4 (Confession)
It is spring of 1987. Korea's struggle with the government and authoritarianism has been generating a nationwide democracy movement for a while. The activists are primarily university students. Young Ho is a professional detective and is falling out of love with his pregnant new wife, Hong Ja.
While getting a haircut at a public bath, Young Ho happens to come across a student activist who is an acquaintance of another activist wanted by the police. He captures the student and tortures him through beating, kicking, and drowning, to find out where the wanted person is hiding.
The man being tortured is actually the father from the previous chapter. While interrogating him, Young Ho mentions the phrase "Life is beautiful," quoted from the man's diary.
A group of detectives go to Gunsan to catch a wanted person. Young Ho gets sentimental and is distracted, knowing that his first love, Soon Im, lives in Gunsan. As the undercover investigation becomes longer, Young Ho's co-workers suggest that he go somewhere to get some sleep.
Young Ho comes across a café and a waitress, Kyeong Ah. Young Ho talks about his first love until Kyeong Ah offers to spend the night together. In a shabby rooftop room, Young Ho, held in Kyeong Ah's arms, calls out to Soon Im and bursts into tears. The next morning, Young Ho walks past the wanted activist without even noticing him. His fellow detectives tackle the activist and mercilessly beats him. The chapter closes on Kyeong Ah stands by a harbour and waiting for Young Ho.Chapter 5 (Prayer)
It is autumn of 1984. Young Ho is a rookie detective. We see young Hong Ja as a waitress, who has a crush on Young Ho. Young Ho, initially naïve and afraid, slowly changes to adopt his senior detectives' aggression and his inherent violent tendencies. He tortures a man being questioned for the first time, who defecates on Young Ho's hand in fear.
Soon Im and Young Ho share a meal at the restaurant where Hong Ja work. Young Ho treats Soon Im coldly, as if denying his own innocence. She presents him with a camera, mentioning his passion for photography, but Young Ho returns the camera to Soon Im as soon as boards a train.
Not long after this day, the detectives are seen at Hong Ja's restaurant, drinking and singing. Young Ho turns up and slowly grows more violent. His pent-up frustration explodes in a fit of thrashing. Afterwards, Young Ho and Hong Ja are seen in bed together. Hong Ja, naked, says a prayer before they engage in sex.Chapter 6 (Visit)
It is May of 1980, The Gwanju Uprising. Young Ho is a new recruit of the infantry division unit. Soon Im visits the station but is unable to visit Young Ho due to martial law. At the same time, the entire unit is urgently dispatched. While Young Ho frantically gathers his military gear, a jar falls and breaks. Inside were peppermint candies that Young Ho has been collecting, sent by Soon Im. When Young Ho and his troop arrives in Gwangju in the middle of the night, he is shot in the foot by a misfired bullet. He sits crying while waiting for his troop to return with aid.
Young Ho hallucinates and sees a smiling Soon Im, but in reality, it is a high school student who wishes to return home. Young Ho snaps out of his delusion and tries to send her off without arousing suspicion. Hearing movement, Young Ho hurriedly fires two bullets in panic to ward off any approaching soldiers and to prompt the girl to run. However, turns out the sounds were from his fellow soldiers. One of the unaimed bullets Young Ho has fired, kills the girl.Chapter 7 (Picnic)
It is autumn 1979. Young Ho and Soon Im are just 20 years old. They are on a picnic to Garibong Peak with their friends. As Young Ho looks at the flowers, he tells Soon Im that he wants to be a photographer, and Soon Im reveals that she works at a peppermint candy factory. Soon Im hands him one, to which Young Ho says it is "the tastiest thing in the world." When the group settles down, they are singing the song, "Na Eoddeokhae" (What Can I Do). Young Ho wanders off and lies among the rocks, looking up with his eyes watering. A train bellows.