Michael Sullivan Sr., is an enforcer to John Rooney, an Irish-American crime boss in Rock Island, Illinois, during the Great Depression. Raised by by Rooney since he was an orphan, Michael has worked for the crime boss most of his life, and built up a reputation as a lethal enforcer for the Rooney family's local business interests.One evening, Sullivan and Rooney's son Connor, are sent to talk with a disgruntled employee, named Finn McGovern. Curious as to what his father's (unexplained) job is, twelve-year-old Michael Sullivan Jr stows away in his father's car, attempting to learn more about his enigmatic father's ambiguous profession. At the location, Michael Jr witnesses Connor's impulsive killing of McGovern, and is soon after discovered by his father and Connor. Although Michael swears that his son will tell no-one about what he saw, Connor is not convinced.After the killing, John Rooney sends Michael to collect a debt from a speakeasy owner, but the owner is informed secretly by Connor to kill Michael, thus eliminating his debts to the Rooney's. The attempt to silence Michael fails, and finding the correspondence Connor wrote, Michael tears off back home...where he finds his wife Annie and youngest son Peter having been murdered by Connor. Michael Jr was not home at the time due to a school altercation, and thus was spared from Connor's actions.Taking his son and fleeing to Chicago, Michael requests assistance from a Lieutenant in Al Capone's crime syndicate, named Frank Nitti. It is here that Michael learns that Connor is already under protection from Capone and his men. After the meeting, Nitti informs John and Connor of Michael's visit, leading to the hiring of an assassin named Harlan Maguire, who is tasked with killing both the father and son (much to the displeasure of John).Following the meeting, Michael Sr's plan is to take his son to the town Perdition in Michigan, where his sister-in-law lives. However, plans change when Harlan catches up to the two at a diner, and almost kills them. Realizing that they are now being pursued, Michael Sr realizes they can't find peace until Connor Rooney is dead.After teaching Michael Jr how to drive a car, Michael Sr then begins a string of bank robberies across the state, but only robbing the banks of mob-money being held by Capone, hoping this will pressure the mobster into giving up Connor. Michael Sr also gives the bank managers some of the money, as a tell-no-one "handler's fee."Once Capone realizes what is happening, he has his money pulled from the remaining banks. From here, Sullivan then tracks down Rooney's accountant, Alexander Rance. However, this turns out to be a trap as Maguire walks in on Sullivan and almost kills him! In the aftermath, Rance is killed and Maguire suffers an injury to his face, as Sullivan is shot in the arm but makes off with some of Rance's paperwork!Michael Jr doesn't get far driving his father, before Michael Sr slumps over! Stopping at a farm in the countryside, the couple living there manage to help the two lay low and recuperate. During this time, Michael begins looking through the papers he got from Rance's hotel room, and finds out that Connor had been embezzling money from his father under the names of gang members that he had murdered.Michael then goes off to visit John Rooney in secret, and tells him what he has found out about Connor. John reveals that he knows what his son has done, but even with this evidence, he will not surrender his son. This revelation leads to Michael making an important decision.Soon afterward, Michael ambushes John Rooney and his bodyguards in the street, picking them off with his Thompson sub-machine gun from an alley before approaching Rooney face to face."I'm glad it's you," John says quietly, before Sullivan Sr. tearfully kills the man who was like a father to him.With John Rooney dead, Capone is bereft of any reason to protect Connor. Michael contacts Frank Nitti again, who gives him Connor's location, on the condition that this will end Sullivan's 'feud.' Michael is then allowed access to Connor's hotel room, where he kills Connor, before leaving.Michael and his son then head off to Perdition, Michigan, where they find a house along the sandy shores of Lake Michigan.Michael Sr goes into the house, but is ambushed by Maquire, who had been laying in wait for the two. Michael Jr appears, and attempts to shoot Maguire, but not before Michael Sr does. A few moments later, Michael Jr watches as his father dies in his arms.Following his father's death, Michael Jr returns to the farm family who helped him and his father, where he assumed the life of a farmer's son.