Five thousand years ago, the city of Kahndaq was under the tyrannical rule of king Anh-Kot, who intended to create the Crown of Sabbac, which is known to give the wearer great power. After enslaving his people and forcing them to dig for "Eternium" - the magical crystal needed to create the crown - a young boy leads the slaves to revolt against him. When the boy is given the power of Shazam, transforming him into Kahndaq's heroic champion Teth-Adam, he kills Anh-Kot and ends his reign.In the present day, Khandaq is oppressed by the Intergang. Archaeologist Adrianna Tomaz tries to locate the Crown of Sabbac, with the help of her brother Karim, and colleagues, Samir and Ishmael. As Adrianna obtains the crown, they are ambushed by the Intergang, killing Samir in the process. Adrianna accidentally reads an incantation which awakens Adam from his slumber, who subsequently slaughters most of the Intergang troops. After an Intergang soldier shoots an Eternium rocket at Adam which renders him comatose, it is revealed that Ishmael is an Intergang member who intends to take the crown for himself.Government official Amanda Waller learns of the incident and contacts Carter Hall / Hawkman to assist in taking Adam into custody. Hawkman is accompanied by his fellow members of the Justice Society of America (consisting of Kent Nelson / Doctor Fate, Maxine Hunkel / Cyclone, and Albert "Al" Rothstein / Atom Smasher) to stop Adam.Adrianna sees an inscription on an inner part of the Crown which states "Life is the only way to Death". Adrianna's son Amon sees Adam as Khandaq's hero, but Adam denies it and departs. Wanting to prove to Kahndaq that their champion has reawakened, Amon makes a ruckus with the Intergang, successfully leading Adam to intervene and overpower them. The JSA arrive in time to stop Adam from doing further destruction. As they fight, Fate senses that Adrianna has the Crown of Sabbac. They manage to stop Adam for a while before he flees to the ruins of Anh-Kot's palace. The JSA ask Adrianna to give them the crown, but she declines until they tell her the truth that Adam was the one who lost control of his power five thousand years ago and destroyed most of Khandaq.The crown is given to Amon, who takes it back home. Ishmael is there with Karim, and reveals his true colors. Amon runs away from Ishmael, who shoots and wounds Karim, and chases Amon. Meanwhile, Adrianna and the JSA meet Adam, and attempt to convince him that he can be a hero to Khandaq, before Amon calls Adrianna, who pleads to Adam to save him. Adam immediately comes to the rescue, but Ishmael manages to abduct Amon and flees on an Eternium bike. Adam tries to rescue Amon by dealing with the Intergang on bikes to no avail. As Adam goes back to Adrianna's home, Hawkman manages to capture two Intergang members and interrogate them about their hideout. Adam uses brute force to interrogate both of them and learns where the Intergang's hideout is, but his way of interrogation enrages Hawkman. As Adam and Hawkman fight, they find that Amon hid the Crown of Sabbac in plain sight. They intend to use the Crown to trade with Amon and must fight side by side to save him. On their way, Fate reveals to Hawkman of his premonition about Hawkman's death.They reach Ishmael, who reveals that he is the last descendant of King Anh-Kot and, wanting his rightful place in the throne, demands the crown, which Adrianna willingly gives to save Amon's life. Unfortunately, Ishmael betrays his part of the deal by shooting Amon and putting the crown on himself. As Adam tries to save Amon, he loses control again and destroys the hideout with his power, until the JSA protects Amon and Adrianna as Ishmael dies in the process.Guilt-ridden, Adam flees to the ruins again. There, he reveals to Hawkman that it was actually Hurut, his son, who was Khandaq's champion; knowing that Hurut was invincible, the king's men executed Hurut's family instead, killing Isis and mortally wounding Adam in the process. Hurut gave his power to Adam to save him, but Anh-Kot's archer managed to kill the now-powerless Hurut. Enraged, Adam slaughtered all of the king's men, before he was summoned by the wizards of Shazam, who imprisoned him after deeming him unworthy. Feeling incapable of becoming Khandaq's champion and protecting it, Adam then surrenders to the JSA, who take him to Waller's underwater prison. Soon after, Fate continues to see the ominous premonition. It is later revealed that Ishmael intentionally made Adam kill him so that he can be reborn as Sabbac, which he succeeds in doing so, and arises from the underworld to Khandaq to claim his throne.The JSA arrive in time trying to stop Sabbac, who summons the undead to Khandaq. Adrianna and Amon fight them, with Karim joining them. Amon asks for the people of Khandaq to fight together against the undead for Kahndaq's freedom.The JSA prepare to face Sabbac in Anh-Kot's ruins. However, Fate creates a magical force field which forbids Hawkman, Cyclone and Atom Smasher from coming into the ruins, and reveals that Hawkman's death can be avoided, with Fate's sacrifice. Fate then fights Sabbac alone, and at the same time uses astral projection to release Adam from his suspended animation so Adam can help them. Adam manages to escape the prison, but Sabbac kills Fate. Fate's death causes the force field to disappear, allowing Hawkman, Cyclone and Atom Smasher try to fight Sabbac, who overpowers them. Just as he is about to kill the JSA, Adam arrives, and engages Sabbac, but is slowly losing as Sabbac's power can harm him. Hawkman uses Fate's helmet to create magical duplicates and spells, having learned from Fate, to help Adam kill Sabbac, ultimately stopping the undead.The JSA depart on good terms with Adam, who accepts his new role as protector of Khandaq rather than its ruler. In a mid-credits scene, Waller communicates with a defiant Adam, warning him about forces ready to stop him, before he is confronted by Superman.