The year 1976 is where the story begins. Belle Bottom, played by Taraji P. Henson, is a
supervillain who is being pursued by the Anti-Villain League as she races across the city after
stealing a map. Following her victory over the AVL agents, Belle makes her way to her hiding
place at the Criminal Records record store. There, she meets the other members of her team,
the Vicious 6, including their founder, Wild Knuckles, as well as members Strong Hold (Danny
Trejo), Nun-Chuck (Lucy Lawless), Svengeance (Dolph Lundgren), and Jean-Clawed
(Jean-Claude Van Damme) (Alan Arkin). They examine the map, and upon doing so, they
discover that it details the location of an artifact known as the Zodiac Stone. Utilizing this artifact
during the Chinese New Year transforms its users into powerful animals.
The Vicious 6 traveled by plane to a remote island in search of the Stone. Wild Knuckles makes
his way inside the temple and discovers the Zodiac Stone, but as soon as he does so, he is
ambushed by a number of small metal guardians. He engages them in combat and then
escapes the temple, only to discover that additional temple guards are pursuing him. The
remaining five of the six pull Knuckles up, but then they steal the Stone from him and turn the
tables on him, telling him that he is too old to lead the team and that they need new blood to
take over instead. They cast Knuckles into the water and then take off into the sky.
Young Gru, played by Steve Carell, is 11 years old and has always had the ambition of
becoming a supervillain. As a result, the other children view him as a peculiar individual and
avoid his company. Kevin, Bob, and Stuart are the ones who come to get him (all Pierre Coffin,
along with the rest of the Minions). They make their way back to Gru's residence, where he
discovers something that was sent to him in the mail. It is a message from Belle Bottom, as Gru
had sent an application to join the Vicious 6 since he is their biggest fan, and Knuckles is his
favorite villain. The context of the message is that Knuckles is Gru's favorite villain (or, was). Gru
receives an invitation from Belle to attend an audition that will take place at the Criminal
Records shop. Gru is ecstatic and believes that his time to shine as a supervillain has finally
arrived. He is seen just living with his unsupportive mother Marlena, who is played by Julie
Andrews, as well as the rest of the Minions that he has employed as his henchmen. He is seen
just living with them. Gru relays the exciting news to the Minions, who enthusiastically rally
behind their "mini boss" despite Gru's displeasure with the moniker.
It has been discovered that Wild Knuckles is in fact still alive and is currently residing in his
mansion along with three of his own goons (John DiMaggio, Kevin Michael Richardson, and
Jimmy O. Yang). He hasn't gotten over the fact that the Vicious 6 kicked him off his own team,
and now he's heard that they're looking for a new member to join them. This has made him very
bitter.
The following day, Gru makes it to Criminal Records, where he is introduced to a younger
version of Dr. Nefario, played by Russell Brand and described as an ambitious mad scientist. He
demonstrates one of his most recent creations to Gru, which is a rifle that fires a sticky green
hand that can grab anything. Nefario hands it over to Gru and then walks him through the
hidden passageway that leads to the Vicious 6's lair. However, when he finally meets them, they
dismiss him for being a youngster because Jean-Clawed imagined that he was a tiny man when
they were reviewing his application. As they walk away, another candidate walks in and tries to
impress everyone with his pilot outfit, but his jetpack suddenly stops working, causing him to
soar erratically through the air. The Vicious 6 make an effort to stop him, which diverts their
attention just as Gru discovers the Zodiac Stone hiding behind them. He steals the Stone by
using the revolver that Nefario gave him, but the six of them find him and begin to pursue him.
Gru catches up with the other minions and hands the Stone over to one of them, named Otto.
Gru flees on his horse while the six warriors pursue him. He makes it so that Strong Hold and
Nun-Chuck are unable to defend themselves, and when Belle and Svengeance grab a hold of
Gru's bike, he uses the rocket to get them out from there as quickly as possible. Knuckles, who
was there the whole time, now follows Gru around in his vehicle after seeing all that happened.
Once Gru and the other Minions have returned to their home, they wait for Otto to return from
work. When he does, he gives Gru a rock that has googly eyes attached to it as a gift. Otto adds
that he ended up going through a series of unfortunate events until he found up at a birthday
party, at which point he traded the Stone for the pet rock that was being given away to the
birthday boy. Because of Otto's mistake, Gru is fuming with rage, and he immediately fires all of
the Minion workers. He sets off on his own to locate the Stone, but as he walks along the street,
the goons working for Knuckles capture him and put him into their van, as Kevin watches from
outside the window of the vehicle. He then proceeds to inform the other Minion workers that
their mini boss has been taken hostage.
Gru is taken to where Wild Knuckles has been hiding out. Knuckles is perturbed to discover that
Gru is not in possession of the Stone, which causes Gru to be overjoyed at the prospect of
meeting his hero. He calls Gru's house in an effort to coerce his mother into paying a ransom,
but Kevin answers the phone instead. Knuckles tells him to bring the Stone to San Francisco
within the next two days or they will kill Gru.
Otto, Kevin, and Stuart go to the kid's house that Otto gave the Stone to, and Bob joins them
there as well. The youngster explains that he handed it over to his uncle, who goes by the name
RZA and is already riding away on a motorcycle. Otto and the other three Minions chase after
him on a tricycle as they search for a bus for an advertisement to take them to San Francisco.
They go to the airport, where they put on disguises and pretend to be pilots and a flight
attendant in order to join the following flight. Kevin and Stuart make an attempt to fly, but they
wind up messing everything up by pressing all of the buttons and making a whole mess of
things before safely landing (sort of).
Knuckles torments Gru by placing him in a gadget resembling a record player, which brings him
closer and closer to saws that are rotating. He dispatches his underlings into the world, and
those underlings end up discovering the Minions. They attempt to seize them since they believe
the Stone is in their possession, and as a result, they find themselves in Chinatown, where an
acupuncturist named Master Chow (Michelle Yeoh) watches the goons beat on the Minions.
Chow, despite her age and the fact that she is a little old lady, demonstrates remarkable kung fu
skills and fights off the goons. Chow informs the Minions that she is no longer active in that line
of work when they beg her to teach them her abilities. Nevertheless, she gives in after the three
of them give her the puppy eye expression.
After the incident, the henchmen decided to give up on Knuckles. After rescuing Gru from the
trap, he puts Gru to work around the house. Knuckles drowns while he is in the process of
cleaning his crocodile-filled pool. Knuckles is grateful that Gru was able to rescue him and drag
him out of the pit in which he was trapped. He takes Gru along with him on the burglary. They
pretend to be a grandfather and grandson so that they can rob the Bank of Evil. Knuckles acts
as though he is having a heart attack so that Gru can steal the keys from Mr. Perkins' house
(Will Arnett). Gru is successful in his attempt to steal the Mona Lisa, much to Knuckles' delight.
Otto pursues the Biker on his tricycle through a number of states, but he is unable to keep up
with him and eventually loses sight of him. Otto is eventually found by the Biker, who then takes
him up, transports him to San Francisco on his motorcycle, and presents him with the Stone.
Chow teaches the Minion gang various forms of martial arts, but more often than not, the Minion
gang injures themselves rather than improving their skills. They are able to quickly improve their
talents, despite Chow's assertion that they have only passed the basic training. Unfortunately,
the Minions have already made their escape, and they are already traveling to help Gru.
The Vicious 6 locate Gru's house, rip off its roof, and then question Marlena and the other
Minions about the whereabouts of Gru. The fact that Gru was kidnapped by Knuckles is
revealed by one of the Minions. The group of six then travels to Knuckles' residence, where they
proceed to rip the roof off, search the property thoroughly, and come up empty-handed.
When Knuckles and Gru return, they find that Gru's home has been demolished. He is angry
because he is aware that the 6 were the ones who did this, and he is frustrated that they would
still try to injure him after all of this time has passed. In spite of Gru's protests, he breaks the
news to him that he is given up and just instructs him to go back home.
A parade celebrating the Chinese New Year is currently taking place downtown. Otto ultimately
causes a commotion by dashing into the crowd. Gru spies him as he is on the trolley and
immediately starts chasing after him. Otto reveals the Stone to Gru, who then professes his
admiration for Otto. Regrettably, the Vicious 6 have managed to catch up to them, and now
have Gru in their custody. In the nick of time, just as they are about to be surrounded by the
Anti-Villain League, Belle seizes the Stone and uses its abilities to transform both her and the
crew into enormous animal monsters. Strong Hold transforms into a bull, Nun-Chuck into a
snake, Svengeance into a tiger, and Jean-Clawed into a monstrous monkey. Belle transforms
into a dragon that breathes fire (with his lobster claw arm). They seize Gru and bind him to the
hands of a clock tower, which will gradually rip him to pieces over time.
Knuckles, Kevin, Stuart, and Bob all appear to come to Gru's rescue at the same time. The
three are reincarnated as a rabbit, a chicken, and a ram after being transformed by Belle.
Despite the fact that Knuckles puts up a valiant effort, Belle is able to defeat him with her fire
breath. The three individuals recall what Chow had said and let loose their inner animals; they
then proceed to defeat the mutated version of Vicious 6. Gru is set free by Otto, and he
immediately heads off to assist his buddies. The three Minions easily dispatch the six, and Gru
seizes the Stone, which he then employs to transform his opponents into rats. They were taken
into arrest by the AVL when they arrived. Knuckles suffers an injury and is subsequently
detained; nonetheless, he assures Gru that they will meet again in the near future.
The scene then cuts to a funeral, where it would appear that Knuckles has passed away. Gru
delivers a heartfelt eulogy for him, only to later discover that Knuckles staged his own death and
is in hiding. Following the performance of the Minion version of "You Can't Always Get What You
Want," Gru is reunited with his idol, and the two of them continue their journey into the sunset
with the remaining Minions.
During the roll of credits, Gru leads the rehired Minions to the Criminal Records business, which
has the appearance of being closed. Gru asks Dr. Nefario whether he would be interested in
officially working for him and building gadgets, but Nefario responds by saying that he is retiring
from the criminal underworld. After Gru and the Minions have successfully persuaded him with
their puppy eyes, he reveals a surprise to Gru, which is the rocket car that Gru is seen driving as
an adult. The newly formed evil crew immediately sets its sights on committing even more
heinous acts