In New York City, radio host Erica Bain (Jodie Foster) and her fiance David (Naveen Andrews) are viciously attacked by three men while walking their dog in Central Park; the men film the assault on their cell phones, and steal Erica's engagement ring and her dog. David dies from his injuries. After being in a coma for several days, Erica wakes up in the hospital and learns that David has died. She finds herself unable to continue her life as normal.Traumatized and living in fear, she attempts to purchase a gun but is denied a sale due to having no gun license. A nearby black market gun dealer overhears her desperation for protection and offers to sell her a Kahr K9 pistol for $1,000. Unwilling to wait 30 days for a legal firearm, Erica buys the handgun from him.One evening while Erica is at a convenience store, a man enters and shoots the store's female cashier to death for the woman is his ex-wife who is suing him for alimony. Hearing Erica's cell phone ring, the man stalks her in the aisles before she kills him with three shots from her semi-automatic pistol.Another night later on a subway car, two black men harass the passengers, all of whom leave except Erica. The men then threaten her with a knife; she shoot and kills them both.Later on, Erica attempts to save a prostitute by threatening her pimp. When he attempts to run them down with his car, Erica shoots him though the windshield in the head, causing his car to run over the prostitute. She is injured but lives.Fueled by rage and a need for vengeance, Erica begins to track down the three men who killed David. Meanwhile, she strikes up a friendship with Detective Sean Mercer (Terrence Howard), who is investigating the vigilante killings around the city, and eventually comes to suspect her when he learns the vigilante is female. Mercer takes Erica with him to interview the prostitute she had saved, but the prostitute does not let on that she recognizes Erica (to protect Erica's identity out of gratitude for saving her life). Erica, after learning of a particularly frustrating case for Mercer, kills the suspect. Mercer privately indicates to Erica that he suspects her but is struggling with what to do about it.The police ask Erica to identify one of the suspects in her attack; though she recognizes the assailant, she does not identify him (vowing to kill the thug herself). She is later informed the police have found her engagement ring at a pawn shop, and goes there to get a name, address and phone number of who sold it to them. She tracks down one of her attacker's ex-girlfriends. The woman is initially too frightened to reveal her boyfriend's whereabouts, but she later sends Erica the video recording of her attack and his address. Erica forwards the video onto Mercer.Erica tracks down all three men, and confronts and kills two of them before freeing her dog. She struggles with the third attacker who gains the upper hand just as Mercer arrives. As Mercer attempts to arrest the attacker, Erica retrieves her weapon and prepares to execute him. Mercer persuades Erica to lower her gun, but after looking into her pleading eyes, hands her his own gun to use instead, and Erica shoots him dead. He then insists that Erica wound him with her gun, which she does, allowing them to frame her attackers for the vigilante killings. Mercer then places her gun in the last attacker's hand and Erica leaves.In the final shot, Erica is walking through Central Park joined by her dog.