In New Orleans, Marley Corbett takes Cammie, the young daughter of Renee and Thomas, so they can have some alone time.Then Marley is shown in bed with her bulldog Stanley. It is time for her to go to work. She has to quickly get out of bed and rush to her advertising job on a bicycle. Stanley stays with Peter, a good looking muscular man who is not wearing much. She has to make a presentation and the other person drops what she needs to illustrate for the clients. When she finally arrives, she just starts talking, without using what she brought with her. The client needs to recognize that women buy the product, not just men.Afterward, Marley is honored as the youngest vice president in advertising. Then she gets together with friends.One of Marley's friends thinks she should be in a relationship but she doesn't see that as necessary. Also, Marley is told she isn't looking so good and she should see a doctor.After Marley accidentally breaks a model of the human body in the exam room, in walks young and good-looking Dr. Goldstein. Marley is pleased her doctor looks so good but concerned that he is so young. Dr. Goldstein assures her he is qualified and his exam reveals a problem that will require further tests.Marley is put under for the tests and finds herself in a cloud. She sees Whoopi Goldberg and asks if she is God. Although Marley states later that she is not a believer, God tells her Marley is seeing what she expected to see and that she can have three wishes. Marley chooses being able to fly and a million dollars but is unable to come up with a third wish. After some reassuring words, Marley wakes up.Marley must see Dr. Sanders, an oncologist. She has colon cancer which is advanced. Treatment will be possible, and while Marley is reluctant, she is told she will die if she doesn't have it. Marley tells her friends but her co-workers think she has mononucleosis. In fact, when one co-worker is surprised to see her on a weekend, she claims to still be contagious.Marley must meet with her parents, but she does not have the best relationship with either of them. They broke up years ago. Her mom is very upset, and her dad says whatever she needs he can provide. Marley resents that all her father seems to be capable of is paying for things. Later, Marley's mom comes to help her out but all she seems to do is criticize, and she is allergic to Stanley. Her father calls but he doesn't want to talk to him.Marley manages to keep a positive attitude during her treatment. While she is with her friend Sarah, they blast loud music in a car. It is a radio station and the DJ says the 97th caller wins a prize. Marley makes a call and is told she is the 97th caller and she wins hang gliding lessons. First wish granted.Renee learns she is pregnant and Marley wants to be happy for her. However, Renee and Marley's other friends seem to be spending time with each other without her.Marley goes to a club where a band is playing jazz. Dr. Goldstein is there. They start to have feelings for each other.The treatment is not working. There is a clinical trial and Marley is willing to participate despite serious side effects. The time has come to tell the people she works with, and there is a life insurance policy she can use to help pay for the treatment. Second wish granted.Marley takes her friends on an expensive shopping spree, and despite her situation, she continues with her positive attitude. However, she gets very sick while in the store and has to be taken to the hospital. It is just dehydration and she can be easily treated for that. Dr. Goldstein seems a little too affectionate, though.Vinny, a little person, goes to Marley's place to be her "little bit of heaven". She isn't interested in the type of relationship he is offering, but they do have a pleasant conversation and play cards. What he says about death makes her feel better about dying. because the new treatment is so unpleasant and she wants good quality of life for whatever is left, Marley gives up, meaning she is out of options.Peter introduces Matt, his friend, who needs a place to live. Marley says he can have her apartment because she won't be needing it soon.Marley and Dr. Goldstein continue with their relationship, even ending up in bed together. He invites her to a fundraiser but insists it is not a date. However, she can't understand why he wants such a relationship, since Marley will die soon. At a zoo with Cammie, she gets in an argument and ends things with Dr. Goldstein.And things aren't going well with Renee either. Though Renee is crying, Marley assumes she doesn't want to lose her baby sitter. Renee claims that is true.Marley drinks while on her bike and nearly gets hit by several cars. When it appears one car will definitely hit her, Marley ends up in the clouds and can see the city below. And God/Whoopi appears to her again, this time to give her some reassuring words.Then the audience sees what really happened. Marley swerved and missed the car but hit her head. She ends up back in the hospital to be treated. Her friends and her mom are there to support her.Marley is able to patch things up with her friends and seems to be doing so with her father, though their meeting in a nice restaurant does not go all that well.Marley also gets back together with Julian for whatever time she has left. They go hang gliding.Marley plans her funeral with her mom, and separately with her friend Sarah. With Sarah she says she wants a celebration and to put the F-U in fun.Soon Marley can't even get out of bed. The audience sees a sequence with only music for audio and several friends and family members joining her one or two at a time. Even her father is there.While Marley is in the park with Sarah, they are able to talk as if things were okay, but Marley isn't able to do much, and she does say she is at peace with dying. She has a smile to the end, and then then Sarah can't arouse her. An ambulance comes for her and Marley is in a hospital bed with her friends around.Except for Renee, who is giving birth.Dr. Goldstein comes to visit Marley and tells her he loves her. Marley wakes up and smiles and then flatlines.At the celebration, Marley is there dancing like everyone else. So is God/Whoopi. The band is the same one Marley and Dr. Goldstein saw, playing "A Closer Walk With Thee". The mood is festive. The audience hears Marley narrate a final message.