Three years after the Birds destroyed Pig City as retribution for the Pigs' theft of their eggs, Red protects Bird Island from pigs. The pigs, led by King Leonard Mudbeard, are in a prank war against the birds after Piggy Island is rebuilt. Eventually, a giant ice ball from a nearby island called Eagle Island hits the sea near Piggy Island, forcing the pigs to seek a temporary truce with the birds. Zeta, the leader of Eagle Island, is angry with her frozen surroundings and wants to occupy the two islands by shooting ice balls from a super-weapon to force their inhabitants to evacuate.Red's two best friends, Chuck and Bomb, surprise Red and ask him to join them in a speed dating activity, where Red meets Chuck's sister Silver, an engineering student who deems Red incompatible. Leonard visits Red and convinces him to ally with the pigs for a brief amount of time. They recruit Chuck, Bomb, Silver and Bird Island's retired hero, Mighty Eagle. A meeting in Mighty Eagle's cave gets disrupted when an ice ball from Zeta's super-weapon hits Eagle Mountain, which alarms the other birds living on Bird Island.As the team travels to Eagle Island by submarine, Red assures the other birds that they do not need to evacuate. Once there, Mighty Eagle confesses that Zeta was once his fiance but he abandoned her due to cowardice before he flies away. Red insists on fighting alone but Silver decides to follow him instead. They intrude the base from the mouth of the weapon, and got captured. The other team members disguise themselves as an eagle and grab a key card to get into the base.As Red and Silver got caught and frozen to inflatables, Zeta tells them her plan to fire ice balls filled with lava at both islands, and demonstrates her newly upgraded cannon. Red, regretting not telling the birds to evacuate, admits his wish liked by everyone to Silver, who comforts him and frees them both. The duo reunite with the rest of the team and Red gives up leadership to Silver, who establishes a plan to destroy the weapon. Red and Silver put themselves inside an ice ball and roll it down the spiraling ammunition track of Zeta's super weapon, with their allies working to sever the track by reaching and pulling a switch so that the ball would fly off and crush the cannon, but the plan fails and the team gets confronted by Zeta and her guards, giving her a chance to fire the weapon.Mighty Eagle arrives and makes a desperate attempt to stop Zeta by apologizing to her. Zeta brushes him off, revealing his real name is Ethan and that her servant Debbie is their daughter. While Zeta gets distracted, Chuck ties up the weapon using Silver's new invention, a very strong string called Super-String, which catches and decelerates the lava balls after Zeta fires them. As the string breaks, the hatchlings and the piglets passing by Eagle Island help grasp it. The lava balls slide back into the weapon, destroying it and the base. Everyone escapes, and Mighty Eagle protects Debbie from being crushed by a metal plate, redeeming himself to her and Zeta. Mighty Eagle and Zeta get married on Bird Island, with Red as the chief witness. Afterwards, Red credits Silver and the entire team for saving the islands, and finds himself being even more beloved for his honesty and selflessness. While the rest of the birds, pigs, and eagles celebrate Zeta and Mighty Eagle's marriage, Silver and Red start a relationship.