The film opens with a shot of a secluded beach and a little girl on the shore staring out at the sea, her parents nowhere in sight.Years later, Mia is a fifteen-year-old girl who has moved to a new town because of her dad's job. On her first day at her new school, Mia is drawn to a group of rebellious kids in her class, who are led by provocative alpha girl Gianna. Mia introduces herself to the crew and joins Gianna and her female friends to hang out at her place. The girls set up an online dating profile for Mia and ask about her sexual history, which Mia claims she has experience in and that she is also into older guys. In a "choking game", Gianna has Mia choke her to the point Gianna falls onto the bed in a euphoric state. Mia then asks if Gianna can do the same to her, which she obliges. Instead of feeling a high, Mia falls onto the bed and has visions of being underwater. When she comes to, she anxiously runs out of the room and back home.At her home, Mia impulsively grabs a couple of tropical fish from her parents' aquarium and devours them. When Mia's mother Gabriela later asks about the missing fish, Mia claims she flushed them down the toilet, to Gabriela's anger. Mia also gets her first period. As she hangs out more with Gianna and friends, she adopts more of their behaviors, including shoplifting at the mall, flashing drivers on the highway, and drinking. She also begins to develop physical abnormalities, such as webbed toes and mysterious bruises on her legs. Mia becomes convinced that she was adopted, due to the changes and the lack of any photos of her mother being pregnant. After Mia's dad Michael drops her off at school, she ditches class to go to a health clinic, hoping to find answers about her toes. Though the doctor initially tells Mia there's nothing wrong with her, she takes a second look and concludes Mia has likely had the condition since birth and would need surgery. After receiving a blood test, Mia sneaks out of the clinic back to her school.Mia later gets a message on her dating profile from an older man in his 30s, and agrees to meet him for sex. Outside a hotel, Mia's friends give her condoms and wait outside for her. While inside the hotel room with the guy, Mia and the guy awkwardly chat. Just as the guy starts to initiate sex with her, he sees the bruises on her legs and becomes concerned. Mia rebuffs him and ends up knocking him to the floor and exiting the hotel. Outside, the girls ask her how the tryst went, but after deducing nothing actually happened, they chastise Mia for being full of hot air.Mia goes to visit the apartment of Gianna's friend Roberto. At his place, they have sex, but Mia does not appear to be bothered by how casual their hookup is. At a local teen hangout, Mia continues to party with Gianna and friends. Roberto's male friend shows interest in her and offers to hook up with her sometime. A drunken Gianna and Mia go back to Mia's place where Gianna stays the night. Gianna confides to Mia about her home life, saying her mom left for the U.S. after divorcing her dad, but has not arranged to bring Gianna despite several years of promises. Gianna forges Michael's signature on a permission slip for a school field trip to an amusement park. Meanwhile, Mia tries to get rid of her webbed toes herself using small scissors, which result in injuries that she bandages up.On the day at the amusement park, the girls get high on ecstasy and drink. Roberto and Mia hook up again in a storage room, but he ends up shaming her by claiming she "gets around" too much for his liking. On a comedown from the drugs, Mia vomits in a restroom. Gianna's friends Nelly and Vivi run in, with Vivi noticing Mia's legs which have grown increasingly bruised. Mia returns home to her angry parents, who have discovered the forged permission slip. As punishment, Michael demands Mia start attending therapy again. At school, Mia is dissecting a fish with her class. After the classroom empties, Mia devours the fish and angrily reacts when one classmate witnesses the incident. Roberto, who is waiting for Mia at the stairs, asks her if she gave him a sexually transmitted infection because word has spread around their circle about her bruised legs.Michael and Gabriela implore Mia to accompany them to a friend's wedding for the weekend, but Mia declines and stays at home alone. After eating the remaining fish in the tank, she heads out to a party at the docks. When an inebriated Gianna falls underwater and doesn't resurface, Mia instinctively dives into the water and rescues Gianna from drowning. Frightened of what just happened, Mia runs back home where she tends to her legs, which have now developed into fish scales. While Mia tries to painfully remove the scales, Gianna walks in and reacts with horror at the sight. She tries to help but is angrily rebuffed by Mia, who is spiraling into a mental breakdown at the rapid change of her body. Mia later puts her makeup on and goes back to the party, which has moved to Gianna's apartment. She gets up on a table and dances provocatively to the delight of some older, college-aged men. The boys take a drunken Mia to a room, close the door, and have her perform fellatio on them. Gianna is able to get into the room and yells at the boys to get out, trying to get through to Mia. Gianna accidentally mentions the bleeding she saw earlier on Mia's legs, which sends the guys into a panic wondering if Mia infected them with a disease. A group of them seize her, trying to inspect her legs and asking if what she has is contagious. When her bare legs are exposed, the guys are left stunned and call her a freak as Mia leaves.Back at home, Mia's legs have now fused together. She tries cutting into her arm with a knife but ends up passing out on the floor. When she wakes up the following morning, she is horrified to discover that she has a fully formed mermaid's tail. She manages to belly flop her way to the bathroom where she submerges herself in a running bath. The water overflows out of the tub and leaks to the rest of the apartment including Mia's bedroom. Gianna comes over, and though she is clearly frightened by what she sees, she does not run away, either. She ends up carrying Mia and putting her in the back of a pickup truck. They drive to the coast, where Mia makes one last phone call to her mother. Mia tells her mom she misses her and her dad, who are unaware Mia is giving a final goodbye. Mia and Gianna go down to the beach and share an emotional farewell before Mia, in her full mermaid form, returns to the sea.