High school junior Lara Jean Covey writes letters to boys she feels an intense passion for before locking the letters away in her closet. Her latest letter is to her childhood friend Josh, who is dating her older sister Margot. When Margot moves to college, she breaks up with Josh. Lara Jean has always had a crush on Josh and decides it would not be okay to date him.One night, while hanging out with her little sister, Kitty, Lara Jean falls asleep on the couch. Kitty sneaks into Lara Jean's room and finds her collection of letters. The following Monday at school, Lara Jean is confronted by a former crush of hers, Peter Kavinsky. Peter reveals he was mailed the letter Lara Jean had wrote him, causing her to faint. After waking up, she sees Josh approaching with a letter of his own, and in a moment of panic, Lara Jean kisses Peter on the school track to throw Josh off before running off.Lara Jean then encounters another recipient of a letter, Lucas, who comes out as gay as she begins to realize that all the letters have been mailed out.She later left her house when Josh showed up unannounced. Lara Jean then encounters Peter at her favorite diner. She explains to him that she was merely trying to make Josh think that she has lost interest in him. Peter is surprisingly okay with this, and proposes that he and Lara Jean fake date each other to make his ex-girlfriend (Lara Jean's ex-best friend and nemesis) Gen jealous. Lara Jean agrees, and the next few months go by with the whole school, along with their respective friends and families, believing that the two are dating.However, when Peter finds that Gen is actually jealous, he finds himself conflicted about his true feelings. Meanwhile, Lara Jean finds herself jealous of the two. Eventually, the two go on the school ski trip together, where they confront each other about their true feelings. They proceed to kiss while alone in a hot tub. After the trip ends, Gen confronts Lara Jean, revealing Peter spent the night in her room after they kissed and taunting Lara Jean by showing her a scrunchie Peter let her take, that was actually Lara Jean's favorite. Furious, Lara Jean breaks up with Peter and storms home, where she finds Margot has returned from college. Peter then comes to her house, hoping to explain that nothing happened between him and Gen, but Josh arrives as well. Margot overhears everything, and is visibly upset when she learns of Lara Jean's former feelings for Josh. Things are worsened when after Lara Jean asks Peter to leave, she sees that a video of her and Peter in the hot tub has been put up on Instagram, seemingly showing the two in a sexual act.Lara Jean asks for Margot's help, who calms down and comforts her sister. Kitty then reveals she was the one who sent the letters. While Lara Jean is enraged, Margot calms her down when she asks why the letters had addresses on them. Lara Jean realizes she may have wanted to send them but was too afraid to do so, and the sisters forgive each other before emailing Instagram to get the video taken down.After Christmas break, Lara Jean discovers that everyone at school knows about the video anyway. Meanwhile, Peter tries to tell everyone that nothing happened. Lara Jean confronts Gen about the video, who reveals she tried to sabotage their relationship as she felt betrayed when Lara Jean kissed Peter during spin the bottle at a seventh grade party. After talking with her dad and reevaluating the relationships in her life, Lara Jean talks to Josh, who agrees to be friends again. When she hesitates to go to Peter despite having real feelings, Kitty pushes her to do so after showing her letters that he wrote during their relationship. Lara Jean goes to see Peter, and he tells her he is in love with her. The two kiss before walking off together.In a mid-credits scene, a recipient, John Ambrose McClaren, one of the five recipients of Lara Jean's letters, arrives at her door with flowers in hand.