Ten people are gathered for a weekend on an island off the coast of Devon, England, 7 guests, a new personal secretary and the domestic couple running the estate. They were gathered by the mysterious Mr. and Mrs. U.N. Owen, whom none of the ten has ever actually met. During dinner, they notice the centerpiece of ten Indian figurines, and Vera recites the nursery rhyme counting down from ten to none. After dinner, the butler plays a recording and a voice blares through the room, accusing them each of the death of another person or persons. Judge Quincannon is accused of sentencing to death an innocent man. Dr. Armstrong is accused of causing a patient's death. Lombard, an adventurer, is accused of allowing a group of native people to be massacred in Africa. Vera Claythorne is accused of the death of her sister's fiance. Nikki Starloff is accused of killing two people. General Mandrake is accused of sending his wife's lover to be killed in the war. Miss Emily Brent is accused of causing the death of a young man by driving him to suicide. The Rogerses are accused of killing the old lady they took care of so that they would inherit her money. The voice promises justice. After this recording, the startled guests compare notes and discover they've been lured to the island under somewhat false pretenses, and they further discover that they are totally cut off from the mainland until the weekend is over. One by one over time the members of the group reveal the details of the crime they are accused of. Prince Nikita Starloff suddenly chokes on his drink and dies and poison is suspected. The hysterical Mrs. Rogers is given a sedative by Dr. Armstrong to help her sleep. But in the morning she is found dead. The eight remaining people make the connection from the two deaths to the nursery rhyme: "Ten little Indian boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were nine. Nine little Indian boys sat up very late; One overslept himself and then there were eight." They search the island for the suspected killer "Mr. Owen." They find they are alone, and they conclude that one of their number is the murderer. The next to die is the General, who is found dead with a knife in his back down by the seashore (Eight little Indian boys traveling in Devon; One said he'd stay there and then there were seven). Each time one of the people is murdered, they find another statue damaged or missing from the centerpiece. The remaining group vote and Rogers is the most likely suspect so they make him sleep out in the woodshed. But Rogers is found dead of an ax wound to the head in the morning, and Miss Brent is missing--she is discovered returning from a walk alone down on the seashore. They want to accuse her, but while they are debating she is killed with a hypodermic (Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks; One chopped himself in halves and then there were six. Six little Indian boys playing with a hive; A bumblebee stung one and then there were five). Now the remaining five realize they need to keep together in groups. The remaining members tell their stories except Vera who won't admit any guilt. While Vera, Lombard, and Blore realize that three is the safest number, the judge and the doctor agree they can form an alliance and find out the truth themselves. The power fails and the judge dies from a gunshot wound to the head next (Five little Indian boys going in for law; One got into Chancery and then there were four). In the morning the doctor is missing (Four little Indian boys going out to sea; A red herring swallowed one and then there were three--he's ultimately found drowned down on the seashore). while Vera, Lombard, and Blore get ready to go search, Blore is killed by someone pushing a piece of masonry down on him (Three little Indian boys walking in the zoo; A big bear hugged one and then there were two). Lombard and Vera are alone together, and they suspect each other. But they also are attracted to each other, and they end up agreeing that they don't really think the other is guilty. LOmbard discloses that Lombard is not his real name and he is there on behalf of his friend and is therefore innocent of the accused crime. Vera pretends to shoot Lombard on the beach, and he plays dead (Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun; One got frizzled up and then there was one). Vera goes back up to the house and discovers there's a hangman's noose waiting for her (One little Indian boy left all alone; He went out and hanged himself and then there were none). The judge appears alive, and explains his plot to her. He has a fatal illness and claims to know that each person was guilty and that the law cannot touch them, so his plan has been to execute them all and then commit suicide. He tells Vera that if the police arrive and find nine dead bodies, they will hang her for murder, so she may as well hang herself. He drinks a glass of poison, but Vera and Lombard are left alive and in each other's arms when the boatman shows up.