Born in war-torn Eritrea and adopted in the United States, Luce Edgar is an all-star high school athlete and accomplished public speaker who is adored by other school students and his adoptive parents, Peter and Amy Edgar. However, he has animosity towards his history teacher, Harriet Wilson, who got his friend DeShaun kicked off the running team after finding marijuana in his locker and calling the police.Harriet calls Amy to school for a meeting and shows her Luce's assignment in which, asked to write from the perspective of a historical figure, he chose political revolutionary Frantz Fanon and argued that colonialism can be overcome through violence. Harriet is concerned, because Luce was a child soldier before coming to America, and someone with his background writing this could cause trouble. Harriet also tells Amy that she went through Luce's locker and found a bag of illegal and dangerous fireworks.Amy shows Peter the paper and the fireworks; both are unsettled but decide to hide them and not say anything to Luce. When asked about Harriet, Luce accuses her of singling out students to make a point, such as often using Stephanie Kim, a classmate rumored to have been sexually abused at a party while drunk, as an example of a victimized woman suffering in silence. Luce is Harriet's shining example of a star black student, but he argues that he does not want to be tokenized. Luce finds the hidden paper and fireworks.The next day, Luce and Harriet discuss his paper. He acknowledges his wording but says he just did what the assignment asked, disavowing any true belief in violence. He makes a comment about fireworks that Harriet interprets as a threat, and she notifies Peter. He and Amy confront Luce. He explains that the track team members share lockers and the fireworks are not his. Peter thinks Luce is lying, but Amy is not sure what to believe.Harriet and her sister Rosemary, who suffers from an unspecified mental illness, have an encounter with Luce that unsettles Harriet. Later that night, Harriet finds Rosemary has trashed the house. She takes her sister back to the "doctor" because she is too unstable to live in Harriet's home. At a car wash fundraiser, Luce promises DeShaun that he will make things right. Meanwhile, Amy and Stephanie meet at a coffee shop. Stephanie says that she used to date Luce, which Amy never knew, but they broke up. Stephanie uncomfortably describes being sexually assaulted at a party by several boys but denies Luce's involvement, saying he claimed to have stopped them and comforted her after she awoke. Luce later learns from Stephanie about the visit.The next day Rosemary arrives at the school to look for Harriet and has a breakdown, asking if Harriet is ashamed of her and stripping naked in front of Harriet, Luce, and other students before she is tasered and apprehended by police. Luce shows a video of the incident to Amy and Peter, disturbing them. Harriet's home is vandalized that night, and Stephanie arrives shortly after to tell Harriet that Luce sexually assaulted her. Harriet informs Principal Dan Towson, and a meeting is organized with them, Luce, and his parents, with Stephanie waiting in another room. Luce quickly disproves Harriet's accusations with video evidence of his whereabouts, and Harriet's harsh questions quickly make Amy and Peter take their son's side over hers. Amy lies that she only spoke to Harriet on the phone and denies knowledge of the fireworks. Harriet discovers that Stephanie has left before she could repeat her accusation to Towson. Towson accepts Amy's claims, and the meeting ends despite Harriet still trying to argue her side.At night, exploding fireworks inside Harriet's desk cause a fire. Towson puts Harriet on a leave of absence pending investigation due to heavy suspicion against her. After learning of the incident, Amy discovers in horror that the fireworks in their home are gone. Peter believes Luce was involved, but Amy insists that they will stand up for their son and not defend Harriet.Luce turns up at Harriet's with a bunch of flowers, because he feels uncomfortable about her losing her job. He confronts Harriet about ruining DeShaun's athletic career and putting Luce on a pedestal, believing she stereotyped them. She defends her position and claims that it was America that stereotyped them, and she was trying to protect them. She accuses Luce of being hypocritical by using other black students to "run his errands" so he wouldn't get caught. Luce argues "that is not the same thing" but does not deny the facts he is accused of. After that, Harriet orders him out of her house.Amy follows Luce to a hideout where he has sex with Stephanie, who sees Amy outside the window but does not react. When Amy returns home to where she had hidden the fireworks, Luce arrives and reconciles with her. Later, Luce gives a speech at school, thanking Amy and Peter for raising him and saying how lucky he feels to be an American, with the chance to start over and tell his own story. Afterwards, Luce goes on a jog, during which his face contorts with rage.(copied from Wikipedia)