Prior to imprisonment, bard Edgin Darvis served as a member of the Harpers, an order of peacekeepers, until disciples of a Red Wizard he had arrested killed his wife. Accompanied by barbarian Holga Kilgore, Edgin attempted to make a new life for himself and his daughter Kira by turning to theft, teaming with amateur sorcerer Simon Aumar, rogue Forge Fitzwilliam, and Forge's mysterious acquaintance, Sofina. While raiding a Harper stronghold, Edgin attempted to steal a "Tablet of Reawakening" to resurrect his wife, but he and Holga are captured while their accomplice's escape.After two years in Revel's End arctic prison, the pair escape to Neverwinter and learn Forge has become Lord there, after its prior lord fell mysteriously incapacitated. Forge has been taking care of Kira, convincing her that Edgin's selfish greed led to his arrest. Sofina is revealed as a Red Wizard, and she and Forge deliberately orchestrated their capture. Sofina attempts to execute Edgin and Holga, but they escape and decide to rob Forge's vault and bring Kira home during the upcoming High Sun Games, needing the tablet to prove their innocence to Kira and resurrect Edgin's wife.The gladiatorial games had previously been banned, but Forge re-instituted them, promising that the games would bring in tourists and money. Edgin and Holga track down Simon to help and he suggests also recruiting Doric, a Tiefling druid, whose forest community is fighting forced logging ordered by Forge. Shapeshifted into a fly, Doric infiltrates Forge's castle, finding the vault has magical defenses from Mordenkainen, which Simon lacks power to disable. Simon proposes that a magic relic, "The Helm of Disjunction," could disable them. They travel to an old graveyard to ask Holga's ancestors where to find it. Simon resurrects the dead with a talisman long enough for them to answer five questions each; the corpses reveal they gave the Helm to Xenk Yandar, a paladin who fled his country, Thay, when Red Wizards turned his people into an undead army. One corpse is left "alive", not having been asked all five questions.Xenk, after forcing Edgin to swear to distribute any gained bounty to the people, guides the group through the Underdark to retrieve the Helm. With the help of a teleportation staff obtained from Holga's halfling ex-husband, they find the relic, but are attacked by Thayan assassins sent by Sofina. Xenk fights off the assassins and helps the group escape from Themberchaud, a pudgy red dragon, before departing. Simon has trouble mastering the Helm's power, so they decide to use the staff to enter the vault during the games. Simon and Holga infiltrate the magically sealed door but find the room empty except for a magical trap. Sofina, disguised as Kira, subdues Edgin.The group is captured and forced to participate in the games but manages to escape the stadium. Doric discovers Forge has loaded the treasure onto a boat and is preparing to flee; the group steals the boat for themselves and rescues Kira from Forge, who threatened Kira's life. As they escape, the group realize Sofina organized the games to draw a massive crowd and turn them into an undead army using the curse that destroyed Thay. The group returns, transporting Forge's stolen riches out of the boat with the teleportation staff and spreading them across the city by hot-air balloon, drawing the people out of the stadium before Sofina's spell takes effect. Outraged at her defeat, Sofina attacks the group, but Simon can master his magic and nullify Sofina's time-stop spell, allowing Kira to use an invisibility pendant Edgin and Holga gave her as a child to place an anti-magic bracelet on Sofina. Sofina is killed when attacked by Doric in owl-bear form and then crushed by falling debris, but Holga is fatally injured.Edgin uses the tablet to bring her back to life, accepting that he wanted to bring back his wife only for his own sake while Holga had become a true part of their family. Doric signals openness to a relationship with Simon. Restored, the old Lord of Neverwinter declares the team heroes of the realm while Doric's people are given sovereignty over their foreseted land to protect as they see fit, and Forge, who is captured by Xenk while trying to escape, is sent to Revel's End, spectacularly failing to escape as Edgin and Holga did.