Youngblood Priest, a young Atlanta cocaine kingpin, has been working the streets since he was eleven. Brought in by his mentor Scatter at a young age, he has been dealing drugs ever since and lives like a king with his two girlfriends, Georgia and Cynthia.One night, Juju, a member of a rival gang called Snow Patrol, hits on Cynthia at her strip club and is furious when he finds out that she is dating Priest. Against Snow Patrol leader Q's wishes, he confronts Priest and shoots at him but misses, accidentally hitting a bystander instead. The Snow Patrol members drive away while Priest gives the victim and her friends money and directs them to the best trauma center in the area.After getting home, Priest has an epiphany, never wishing to get shot at again. Priest confides in his second-in-command Eddie, explaining that he wants out of the drug-dealing scene, and that he has a plan to do so. Eddie initially resists, but eventually says that he has his back. Priest also lets Scatter know, but his mentor refuses to help him. After a hit is carried out on a gathering of Snow Patrol members, Juju suspects Priest and plans to get back at him. One of Priest's colleagues, Fat Freddie, is caught cheating on his girlfriend, who in return gives information to Snow Patrol about where Freddie was that day, allowing the gang to deduce that he was one of the assailants.Snow Patrol sets an ambush for Fat Freddie. While waiting, Fat Freddie gets pulled over by a corrupt cop named Franklin, who searches his car. His associate, Detective Mason, discovers cocaine and searches Freddie's phone, finding Eddie in his contacts. She orders Freddie to reveal where he got the cocaine while holding a gun to his head. He refuses to give up information, but his new girlfriend, Rochelle, fearing for his life, reveals his criminal history and who Priest is. Freddie and Rochelle are released, but Franklin then shoots both of them dead so no information can be leaked.Mason finds Priest and blackmails him, threatening to expose his dealing if he does not comply. Priest tells Eddie he is the reason that Freddie is dead, but he concedes that Eddie would not have given the brick to Freddie. However, Eddie becomes furious at Priest, but begins a brawl fight between them and they are falling out. After violently strangling Eddie, Priest storms off angrily, leaving him unconscious. Later, when Priest overhears Georgia and Cynthia discussing his police problems, he stops their argument and get their passports ready to leave the country. At Freddie's funeral, Scatter surprises Priest and orders him to drive to a meeting with Adalberto, his drug supplier, after finding out Priest cut a secret deal for more product. Adalberto kills Scatter, explaining how he realized he was stealing from him after Priest's profits were significantly higher than Scatter's. Adalberto threatens Priest, telling him that he can never get out of the game.Snow Patrol members led by Juju shoot up Priest's house; Cynthia returns fire before being killed by a shotgun blast. Distraught, Priest and Georgia whip up some Molotov cocktails and set fire to the mansion. Juju escapes and chases after Priest, with Q behind him. Juju is injured, while Q is killed in a car crash when Georgia shoots at him. Eddie, after seemingly having a change of heart, finds Juju and asks to join him, but Juju refuses. Eddie feigns allegiance with Snow Patrol, and tricks them into going to Priest's stash house to get revenge for Q's death, where they are ambushed and killed by Mason and other cops alerted by Priest. Juju is gunned down by Mason, who removes packs of cocaine out of Priest's safe, which he apparently left as compensation or evidence for the bust.Priest thanks Eddie for his help, and prepares to leave the country with Georgia. He blackmails the mayor with a sex tape, asking for a specific legal document and promising he will guarantee the mayor wins the upcoming election. Adalberto is seen being restrained and executed at his mother's order after she receives a court document proving that he framed his brother for a crime he did not commit. While waiting for Priest to pay her off, Mason is surrounded by police and arrested for cocaine possession after Priest tips them off.Priest calls Franklin to a meeting and beats him up, before breaking his arm by avenges on Freddie's murder. Having settled all of his business obligations and with his enemies either dead or in police custody, Priest is finally shown relaxing on a cruise in Montenegro with Georgia.