Bea is a successful architect who lives in Barcelona (Catalonia, northeast of Spain) with her boyfriend and boss Víctor, CEO of an important company. During a night celebration of an important contract signed to make a skyscraper designed by Bea, in the bar appears the famous TV reporter and anchorwoman Rebecca Ramos, Victor's personal erotic fantasy. Not measuring the consequences of her actions under the influence of alcohol, Bea introduces Rebecca to Victor. The next day Victor proposes and Bea accepts, but at work she learns that a video of Victor and Rebecca having sex in a car is all over the TV channels. In front of all of the CEOs during a meeting, Bea slaps Víctor, destroys her design, and is fired. She flees to her coastal hometown, Santa Clara, where she discovers that her eccentric, free-spirited, and eternal smiling mother Ángela has gathered the whole family to celebrate Bea's visit. Bea reunites with her eldest sister Irene, the town mayor who has a depressive son Fin and is trying to create an ecological power plant; older sister Débora, a first-time mother in full distress with her newborn baby Lucas; and León, youngest and openly-gay brother who dates Manel, a cop in the town. But when Bea thinks that things can't worsen after knowing that Víctor and Rebecca are an official couple, life surprises her much more: Débora confesses that Lucas has been diagnosed with dwarfism and reveals that he isn't her husband Juan's son but the result of a one-night stand with Teodoro, a dwarf hired for her stag-party; Bea's project to make a treehouse with the family ends when Diego, owner of the town's sawmill, claims that her family lands were sold to him by her long-dead father; and finally Ángela reveals in a family lunch that she has a terminal disease and will die in one year, shocking everybody, especially Irene. Frustrated and desperate, Bea finds a second chance when Diego asks to create another tree-house for his little daughter Diana, who has been mute since her mother's death in a car crash two years before. Reluctant because she and Diego had been in a failed relationship in the past, she finally accepts the job. She feels attracted to him again--and then Víctor and Rebecca Ramos appear in Santa Clara to solve some problems and create others.—Chockys