Abby Holland (Kristen Stewart) and Harper Caldwell (Mackenzie Davis) are a couple who have been dating nearly a year. Abby dislikes Christmas since her parents passed away a few year earlier, so Harper spontaneously invites Abby to celebrate the holidays with her family in her hometown of Pittsburgh. Abby sees this as the perfect opportunity to introduce herself to Harper's parents and propose to her on Christmas morning. However, on their way to the Caldwells' house, Harper reveals she lied to Abby about coming out to her parents; fearing doing so would interfere with her father's campaign for mayor, she doesn't want to come out to her family until after Christmas. She asks Abby to pretend to be her straight roommate for the holiday, to which Abby reluctantly agrees.At the Caldwells' house, Abby meets Harper's father, Ted (Victor Garber), her perfectionist mother, Tipper (Mary Streenburgen), and her wacky younger sister, Jane (Mary Holland). The family welcomes Abby as Harper's "orphan friend" who has nowhere else to go for Christmas. Abby quickly becomes uncomfortable, especially when she meets Harper's exes, boyfriend Connor (Jake McDorman) and girlfriend Riley (Aubrey Plaza). During the visit, she begins questioning how much she knows about her girlfriend when she sees Ted and Tipper's high expectations and Harper's competitive relationship with her older sister, Sloane (Alison Brie).Meanwhile, Ted is trying to impress a possible donor from the city council to contribute to his campaign, which Abby unwillingly jeopardizes when Sloane's children put an unpaid necklace into her bag at the mall and she is caught with it. Believing she is a shoplifter, Ted and Tipper think it might be better if they keep Abby away from upcoming social events. From this point, Abby feels even more like an outsider. She also learns from Riley that Harper denied her sexuality ever since she was a high school freshman during their romantic time together, which makes Abby more worried about the future of their relationship.At the Caldwells' annual Christmas Eve party, Abby, having grown tired of her current situation, is relieved when her friend John (Daniel Levy) arrives unannounced to pick her up. Harper privately begs Abby to stay and as they are about to kiss, they are caught by Sloane who prepares to expose their relationship to the family. However, it turns out, Sloane has a secret of her own: she and her husband, Eric (Burl Moseley), are getting a divorce. The sisters get into a public fight, ruining the party. Sloane reveals in front of the guests that Harper is a lesbian and in a relationship with Abby..... which Harper denies immediately. Heartbroken by this, Abby leaves the house. John follows Abby outside, where the two talk about their stories of coming out to their respective families: Abby's parents were loving and accepting, while John's bigoted and homophobic father threw him out of the house and publicly disowned him forever. John reminds her that coming out can be terrifying for gay people, but has nothing to do with Harper's love for her.After realizing that her fear of rejection by her parents caused her to hurt Riley and will cause her to lose Abby, Harper finally tells the truth to her parents, confirming that she is a lesbian. Predictably, both Ted and Tipper do not react well to this news. This inspires Sloane to reveal her own secret that she and her husband are getting divorced, and even Jane tells her parents how neglected she felt throughout the years. Harper goes after Abby to apologize, confessing that she truly loves her and wants to build a life with her. Touched by her words, Abby forgives her and they share a long and passionate kiss.Ted apologizes to his daughters for making them feel they always had to be perfect. Then he gets a phone call from the donor he's been trying to impress, who will support him only if Harper stays quiet about her personal life. Ted rejects the offer. The Caldwells then take a family picture, with Abby included this time.One year later, Abby and Harper are now engaged, Jane has become a bestselling author with her fantasy novel, 'The Shadow Dreamers', and Ted has won the mayoral election. On Christmas Eve, the family goes to the local retro cinema to watch 'It's a Wonderful Life'. As the movie starts, Abby and Harper smile at each other lovingly.