In 1971, demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren bring the possessed Annabelle doll to their home after claims from two nurses, Debbie and Camilla, that the doll often performed violent activities in their apartment. The doll summons spirits to attack Ed as they drive to their home but he survives and Annabelle is placed in a sacred glass case in the couple's artifacts room and blessed by Father Gordon to ensure her evil is contained.One year later, in 1972, the Warrens welcome Mary Ellen, who will be in charge of babysitting the couple's daughter, Judy, to their home when they go overnight to investigate another case. At school, Judy sees the spirit of a priest that begins following her. After shopping at her friend's supermarket and talking with her crush, Bob Palmeri, Mary Ellen starts to bake a cake for Judy's birthday. Her friend Daniela arrives uninvited to the Warrens' home. Daniela, who is curious about speaking to the dead after the death of her father, gives a pair of roller skates to Judy as her birthday present and convinces her to play with Mary Ellen outside. While they are away, Daniela tries to get into the artifacts room but finds the room securely locked.Daniela finds the door's key in the Warren's home office and starts exploring and touching artifacts, ultimately trying to contact her late father with an artifact called the Mourner's Bracelet. She accidentally leaves Annabelle's glass case unlocked after hearing a knock that makes her think that her father is attempting to communicate. The terror begins shortly afterward with a knock at the front, but there's no one there. The spirit of Bee Mullins interrupts Mary Ellen. That night, Annabelle begins releasing other spirits, such as the Ferryman, the Bride, cursed samurai armor, a Feeley Meeley board game, and a hellhound. After Bob arrives and asks Mary Ellen out on a date, he is attacked by the hellhound, and hides in the chicken coop in the Warrens' backyard. Mary Ellen is attacked and dragged by the Ferryman, while Judy is confronted by Annabelle in her bedroom. When Daniela goes to return the artifacts room's key, she becomes trapped inside the room and tormented by a monkey toy and an old television that can predict the near future.A future, bloody, and screaming Daniela appears on the television screen after having answered a cursed telephone. When the real Daniela reaches to answer the telephone, Judy and Mary Ellen, who have escaped from the spirits attacking them, rush in and prevent Daniela from doing so. The trio eventually escapes from the artifacts room after Annabelle terrorizes them again. Judy explains that they must lock Annabelle in her case again so the other spirits will rest. When they attempt to retrieve the doll, Daniela is attacked and possessed by the Bride and starts attacking Mary Ellen. Eventually, Mary Ellen and Judy find the doll after the priest's spirit, acting as Judy's guardian, shows them the way. Daniela recovers when Judy plays Ed's recorded footage of the Bride's exorcism and helps Mary Ellen and Judy recover the doll. They managed to retrieve the glass case's key after they are attacked by demonic hands from the Feeley Meeley board game. After the doll's case is locked, the disturbances stop and the other spirits return to their slumber. The trio is also reunited with Bob, who has survived the hellhound's attacks.The next morning, Ed and Lorraine returns and the trio tell them about their struggles. Eventually Daniela apologizes to Lorraine, but Lorraine knows her ill-advised actions were the result of her wanting to contact her late father. Lorraine tells Daniela about a message she received from him, returning the picture of her father that Daniela had inserted in the bracelet earlier. The two then reunite with the others to join Judy's birthday party celebrations along with Judy's friends.