Alice Ackerman works as a camgirl on a website called FreeGirlsLive, broadcasting sexually promiscuous live shows from a studio she has set up in her home under the name "Lola_Lola." She is obsessed with her rank on the site, hoping to be number 1, a spot currently held by a camgirl named BabyGirl. Her mother is unaware of her career, believing that she works in web development. Her younger brother, Jordan, knows about Alice's job and has agreed to keep it a secret, though he persuades Alice to tell their mother the truth someday.One night, in the middle of a show, an anonymous user encourages her to perform self-mutilating acts using a knife. She blocks the user, only for him to return and make increasingly disturbing requests. Her viewer count and rank both rapidly increase as various users either encourage her to go through with the suicide or beg her not to. She eventually complies and slits her throat on-camera with a knife, before revealing that the suicide was staged using makeup. As she ends her stream, she receives a call from "TinkerBoy," a loyal viewer of hers whose real name is Arnold. In the ensuing conversation, it is revealed that the anonymous user persuading her to commit suicide was in fact Arnold, and that the two of them planned the encounter in order to increase Lola's popularity. Arnold reveals he is searching for jobs and considering moving out of his state. Alice then abruptly ends her call with Arnold after receiving a call from Barney, another loyal Lola fan. One day, while shopping for party supplies for Jordan's birthday party, she sees Arnold in the store. Though they don't acknowledge each other, they both clearly instantly recognize one another.Alice later video chats with another camgirl, Fox, and the two discuss how to improve their ranks. Fox suggests meeting at Cam Girl Clubhouse to do a "control show," in which one of the girls inserts a vibrator into the other and controls it via a remote. Alice suggests using a "Vibratron," a vibrator known for being extremely powerful. Fox is reluctant, but Alice promises she'll be the one to ride the vibrator. Fox still refuses. Later that night, Alice video calls with Barney again. She mentions that he will be in her area next week and offers to meet up in-person. She writes down the date and location before Barney suddenly logs off.During her next show, Alice finally reaches the top 50. She begins to celebrate and enthusiastically thank her viewers, but her rank quickly drops - she then discovers that a rival camgirl, Princess_X, who has a strict "no nude" policy, is promising to get naked on camera if Lola's rank drops back to 60. Lola drops to 59, much to Princess' chagrin. Lola awkwardly thanks her viewers before ending the stream. She then receives a call on her cell phone from Arnold, who expresses sympathy for her and disdain towards Princess. Alice asks why he is calling her on her personal phone rather than on FGL, since she only gave him her number to use in case of emergency. Arnold explains that he has been worried after Alice repeatedly ignored his FGL calls. Alice then asks him to confirm that it was him she saw in the store earlier that day. Arnold reveals that he received a job in Alice's state and is currently staying in a motel, though searching for a permanent place of residence. Alice is clearly uncomfortable at the possibility that Arnold may have moved to her state just to be closer to her, though he insists that it was merely a coincidence. She abruptly ends the phone call before contacting Fox and asserts that they will be doing the control show.While at Cam Girl Clubhouse, Alice runs into Princess_X and another camgirl, LuckyDuck, who mock her and coyly wish her luck on the show. The control show is a huge success, bringing Alice's rank back up to 47. The following morning, Alice attempts to log into her FGL account, but finds that all of her login information has been changed. When she searches for "Lola," she finds that the account is still active and currently streaming. Curious, she logs into a spare account to watch the stream and sees someone with her exact appearance and mannerisms playing in a bathtub with bubbles and bath toys - even their studio is an exact replica of Alice's. She hears her own voice coming from her studio, and apprehensively enters, only to find that nobody is there, but that the TV in her studio is playing the stream. Alice contacts the site's customer service, believing that they are replaying old shows, but they assure her that this is impossible. Alice looks back through her calendar - on which she has written a brief description of each livestream for every single day - to match a date to the bathtub livestream, but cannot find anything. FGL customer support claims that they can't do much since the account is live and the performer matches the identification they have on file. Alice logs into a spare account and messages the chat that she is the real Lola and that FGL is replaying an old show, but is quickly blocked from the channel. Alice then creates a new account under the name "MrTeapot." When her attempts to private chat with "Lola" fail, she messages the chat demanding to know what is happening. "Lola" sees the messages and greets the new user, directly addressing them as "Teapot," proving that the stream is in fact live. Confused and afraid, Alice leaves the stream.Alice later meets up with LuckyDuck and Fox to explain the problem, showing them a livestream by the fake Lola in which she is wearing pasties and writing on her body with markers. LuckyDuck and Fox both seem skeptical, believing it to be an old show that is being replayed, but Alice proves them wrong when she tips "Lola" and asks her to say "orange," which she does. Princess_X then arrives and notices the stream, as well as the real Lola sitting right in front of her. She comments on the strangeness of the situation, but is quick to dismiss it. Alice alludes that Princess is the one behind the account hijacking, but Princess asserts her innocence, claiming that if she were to go to the trouble of hijacking somebody's account, it would be somebody at least in the top ten. Frustrated, Alice leaves.The next day, while shopping for Jordan's birthday present, Alice contacts FGL customer support again for an update on the status of her report. When she divulges her access code, the representative tells her that the code is invalid. Alice asks to speak to a supervisor, but he cannot allow her to do so if he is unable to verify her identity. When she demands that he do more to help her, he asks her to calm down, leading her to angrily end the call. Alice drops off Jordan's gifts at the salon her mother works at. Arnold then shows up, offering her a bouquet and asking if he can meet her mother. Alice hastily dismisses him. Arnold is confused, claiming that during a private cam session last night, Alice confessed her love to him and expressed the desire to begin a real-life relationship with him. This is a breach of one of the "rules" Alice had set for herself - not telling any of her viewers that she loves them. Realizing that the doppelg채nger was the one responsible for the private cam session, Lola angrily asserts that she didn't talk to Arnold last night before forcibly removing him from the salon.That night, Alice attempts to recreate her account, but is unable to do so due to her ID already being on file. She joins another Lola livestream to see the fake Lola masturbating and exposing herself in a public library, compromising another one of Alice's personal rules - not doing any shows in public. The stream is later uploaded onto Girls4Download, a website where old FGL shows can be uploaded, and watched by several of Jordan's friends while at his birthday party. Alice arrives right at that moment with the cake, and the boys awkwardly greet her, laughing and ridiculing her amongst themselves after she leaves. Right as they're about to prepare the cake, Jordan and one of his friends, Alex, abruptly barge into the room, with Jordan trying to wrestle a phone out of Alex's hands. Right as Alex loudly announces that Alice "does porn," the phone is dropped and picked up by Alice's mother, who sees the stream. When the room falls silent, a humiliated Alice tries to apologize to her mother, but she says nothing back, only prepares the cake and begins singing the Happy Birthday song for Jordan. As all the party guests awkwardly join in, a distraught Alice leaves.That night, the fake Lola hosts an 80's workout themed show. Alice is infuriated when she notices that Lola's rank has hit 31. Blinded by rage, she impulsively buys tokens to tip the fake Lola and convinces her to spank herself to the point of bruising. The fake Lola then opens a chest of BDSM tools, using them to tease her audience before she abruptly pulls out a gun. As Lola dangerously plays with the gun, her rank continues to climb into the top 20. She requests 100,000 tokens in exchange for shooting herself in the mouth as the real Alice watches on in horror. The goal is met, and the fake Lola shoots herself in the mouth, sending Alice into a panic attack. Lola then gets up, revealing the suicide to have been staged. A sobbing Alice calls Fox, but is sent to voicemail, so she contacts the police instead. When two officers arrive at her house, both are largely unhelpful; one officer flirts with her by asking increasingly invasive questions about her job, and the other claims that Alice should simply not use the internet if she wants to avoid situations like this. The fake Lola then announces an upcoming live show with BabyGirl. Alice joins Baby's livestream and attempts to get in contact with her, to no avail. She grows suspicious when Baby mentions wanting to "burn her house down so a fireman would take pity on her" and "needing to get fucked," both word-for-word phrases that the fake Lola had said in her livestreams.Alice calls Fox to ask if she has any information about Baby's real name or location. Fox laughs and dismisses her before abruptly hanging up. Alice meets up for her date with Barney the next day. As they share lunch, Alice cleverly manages to get Barney to reveal that Baby is from Oehler, Georgia and that she was crowned prom queen in high school. She excuses herself to the bathroom to further investigate on her phone, but "Lola" goes live right at that moment. Alice locks herself in a stall as Barney confronts her, accusing her of lying about her identity to try and scam him, but claims that they "can still have some fun" if she is honest about her true identity. When Alice tries to escape, Barney assaults her, but Alice frees herself by biting his hand, which he had been using to cover her mouth.During Lola and Baby's joint livestream, Alice uses the information provided by Barney to find Baby's real name, which is Hannah Darin. When she googles her, she discovers that Hannah had in fact passed away in a car crash six months prior. Alice deduces that the "Baby" currently streaming is also a doppelg채nger, and that whatever is responsible for the Lola copy had created the Baby copy as well. While streaming, the Baby and Lola doubles divulge personal information about Alice, including revealing what the rest of her house outside her studio looks like. The fake Lola starts to share baby pictures of Alice, including a picture of Jordan, whereupon she also reveals his name. This distresses Alice to the point of destroying her laptop.Alice visits her childhood home to find that inflammatory remarks have been spray-painted on the side of it. When she goes inside and is faced with her mother, Alice explains that she planned to tell her mother the truth about her job eventually, but wanted to wait until she was "good enough." Alice's mother tells her that she watched some of the livestreams, and that she enjoys Alice's confidence when she acts as "Lola," a stark contrast from her usual shy and sheltered personality. Alice tries to explain that the person in the livestreams isn't the real her, but her mother doesn't understand this as anything other than a metaphor for Lola being a persona that Alice adopts. She tries to show her mother a livestream to prove her point, but the fake Lola is not online at the moment. Jordan then enters, but is dismissive when Alice greets him, ignoring her even when she demands that he speak to her.Alice later visits a public library and uses their computer to search for other camgirls that she assumes to be doppelg채ngers, namely by searching for joint shows recorded by "Baby" after the real Hannah Darin's death. She notices that each of the fake girls have Arnold as their top friend, and seeks him out at the motel he mentioned he was staying at earlier. She apologizes for her crass behavior earlier and tearfully begs for his help. He offers to let her stay the night at his motel out of concern for her safety. After falling asleep, Alice wakes up in the middle of the night to find that Arnold is in the bathroom, masturbating in the middle of a private cam session with Lola. An enraged Alice attacks Arnold with a taser and demands answers from him. He reveals that he knows about the doppelg채ngers and that he can usually "guess" which girl is going to be replicated next. He promises, however, that he is not responsible for the replicas and that he isn't sure how how they work or why it happens. He professes his love for her as he swears his innocence. As an injured Arnold lays on the floor, Alice enters the bathroom and talks to the fake Lola from his computer. Lola greets her and asks if she is Arnold's girlfriend, making no comment about the fact that they look exactly alike. Alice deduces that the entity doesn't recognize what it is replicating. She hastily leaves while a distraught Arnold begs her to stay.Alice goes home and sets up her vanity mirror, camera, and television in a positions that creates an illusion showing multiples of her. She joins a private cam session with the fake Lola, who instantly recognizes her as "Tinker's girlfriend," still apparently oblivious to the fact that they are identical. Alice tells her to sit at her vanity and put her monitor in front of her mirror, before suggesting she go live so everyone can see "how good they look together." The fake Lola enthusiastically agrees, and viewers chalk up the two Lolas to special effects. Alice challenges Lola to a game in which they must imitate each other - whoever the viewers think does the best job wins, and the winner may ask anything of the other. Lola wins the first round by blowing a kiss and telling her viewers she loves them - as her prize, she orders Alice to strip, which she does. Alice then smashes her head into her desk, triggering a nosebleed. Lola does the same - Alice convinces her viewers that the other "Lola" is fake when Lola emerges with her face completely unscathed. Lola then makes her face bleed on command, impressing her viewers with her use of "special effects makeup." Alice smashes her face into her desk harder, causing her nose to break. She is declared the winner and demands Lola's account password. Lola hesitates at first, but Alice says her viewers would never trust her again if she refuses. The audience agrees, and when Lola notices that her rank has dropped from 3 to 4, she complies, sending her Alice her password in a private message. Alice then logs into Lola's account and deletes it just as it reaches the number 1 rank.Some time later, Alice's mother does her makeup for her in preparation for an upcoming livestream. Her mother asks Alice what she will do if the same thing happens again, to which Alice responds that she will simply continue to recreate her accounts. It is revealed that Alice has gotten a fake ID containing the name "Emily Ramsay." She creates a new account under the name "EveBot." The movie ends just as "Eve" begins her first ever stream.