In 1967, a young Tony Soprano travels with Dickie Moltisanti to welcome home Dickie's father, "Hollywood Dick" Moltisanti, and his new Italian wife, Giuseppina. Moltisanti is a soldier in the DiMeo crime family, which also consists of Johnny Soprano and his brother Junior, Silvio Dante, Paulie Walnuts, Pussy Bonpensiero, and "Buddha", Pussy Bonpensiero's father. After a black taxi driver is assaulted by white police officers, riots break out in Newark. One of Dickie's black associates, Harold McBrayer, begins to take part in the riots.Simultaneously, Johnny and Junior are arrested at a carnival, while Tony watches from a distance. Johnny is sentenced to four years in prison. Hollywood Dick kicks Giuseppina down a flight of stairs. Dickie realizes this and confronts him. After a physical altercation, Dickie kills his father and transports his body to his drainage supply building, which he burns down to make it look as though it were destroyed in the riots. Dickie visits his uncle and Hollywood Dick's twin brother, Sally, who is serving a life sentence in prison for killing another made man in his own family. Dickie begins seeing Giuseppina as his goomah. In elementary school, Tony is suspended from school for starting a gambling operation. Harold decides to move to North Carolina following a murder warrant, and Dickie gives him $500 as a gift.Four years later, Johnny is released from prison. At a welcoming back party, Dickie and his wife Joanne show an infant Christopher to Johnny and the rest of the family. Christopher cries when he sees Tony, and a woman at the table tells him that "some babies, when they come into the world, know all kinds of things from the other side." Harold returns from North Carolina and decides to start his own black-led crime operation in Newark. Giuseppina has an affair with Harold after a fight with Dickie. Harold kills one of the DiMeos and steals their protection money. Dickie and his crew interrogate one of Harold's gang members, Cyril, and kill him. In retaliation for Cyril's death, Harold and his gang engage in a shootout with the DiMeos, during which Buddha is killed.Tony steals the answers for his geometry exam, and the school guidance counselor tells Tony's mother, Livia, that he has a high Stanford-Binet IQ and the Myers-Briggs personality traits of a leader, and that Tony told her about a time in which his mother hugged him and read him a book about Sutter's Mill and how it was one of his best memories. Livia tries to show her affection for Tony, but she mentions how her doctor wanted to prescribe her antidepressants and when Tony believes it might be helpful, she antagonizes him.At a wake, Tony asks Dickie if he could get Elavil for his mother, but Dickie is hesitant. Junior slips and falls on the steps, causing Dickie to laugh uproariously in his face, infuriating Junior. Dickie reconnects with Giuseppina and promises her a beauty parlor for her to run. During a walk on the beach, she confesses to an affair with Harold. An enraged Dickie drowns her in the sea. Dickie visits Sally who advises him to stay out of Tony's life. Dickie begins to avoid Tony, much to his anger. Silvio encourages Dickie to reconcile with Tony, and Dickie relents. However, before he can arrive home, he is shot in the head from behind by an unknown assailant, under the orders of Junior Soprano. At the wake, Tony stares at the body of Dickie.