after the events of A Grand Day Out, It's Gromit's birthday, the 12th of February, on a leap year. and Wallace presents his friend and pet beagle with 2 new gifts: a gift-wrapped present of a new dog collar and dog's lead, and his latest invention: a giant homemade pair of automated ex-NASA space designed mechanical robot walking magnetic pants legs called "Techno-Trousers", designed to take Gromit on walks. Needless to say, Gromit is hardly at all thrilled with these two gifts and not very impressed.Wallace and Gromit find the mail is filled with trillions and trillions of debts! While going over the bills, Wallace realises that they're extremely short on cash, and decides to rent out the spare bedroom while Gromit goes on a walk to test the techno trousers. Gromit is surprised when a small mysterious black penguin shows up in answer to the sign out front, Gromit and the penguin don't see eye-to-eye. Gromit's day is made worse when the penguin decides to take his room instead of the extra bedroom. Wallace tries to make the best of it, trying to help Gromit redecorate the room. Gromit uses the techno-trousers to walk up the walls of the room and repaint the ceiling. As he does so, he notices the penguin watching from the doorway.Later on that evening, Gromit tries to sleep, but the penguin has Gromit's radio on in his room playing very loud music. stressfully unable to cope, Gromit goes outside and to the doghouse kennel out back.Waking up the next day, Gromit is then upstaged as the penguin takes a long time brushing his teeth (despite that birds don't have teeth) and then even tries to become overly-helpful, fetching Wallace's slippers and mail, making Wallace more impressed than he is with Gromit. Later on that evening, Wallace throws a dinner party with the penguin and without Gromit who just watches from his kennel. feeling heartbroken, depressed and unwanted, Gromit leaves for a new home, with Wallace unaware of his absence.the next day, things start to go crazily off the deep end back at Wallace's place. Wallace wakes up for breakfast, only to find himself now wearing the Techno-Trousers, only with it's control panel strangely missing. The trousers then take off by itself with him still attached, running all over town going bonkers and creating mayhem, chaos and carnage. Gromit meanwhile, is unsuccessfully searching for a new apartment, when he sees a wanted poster for a dark evil black bird criminal with a red rubber glove on his head. The poster gives the bird's name as 'Feathers McGraw', and asks 'Have you seen this chicken?'Gromit sees the penguin holding a remote control with the control panel from the techno trousers, and then finds Wallace in the trousers and unable to stop them. Gromit takes Wallace home and clothes him in pyjamas. Gromit then spies on the penguin while reading his newspaper in a cafe', he watches him mysteriously measuring the windows of the city museum of West Wallaby, Wigan while Gromit is disguised as a dog-food box. then he sneaks into the penguin's room (which is actually Gromit's room that he stole) and discovers written and drawn plans for a crime spree.that night, the penguin makes the sleepwalking Wallace walk out of this house (though doesn't notice Gromit spying on him) using the remote control while wearing the red rubber chicken glove disguise from the poster, revealing that he was the chicken criminal from the poster, Feathers McGraw. Feathers and the sleepwalking Wallace travel to the city museum, and Feathers, using the remote control panel and his written and drawn crime plans, steals a precious diamond from the museum. though also accidentally makes the alarm go off and awakens Wallace.Wallace and Feathers walk home with the diamond, Feathers takes off the glove and reveals his identity. then he shuts Wallace up in a wardrobe, Gromit then jumps out from hiding, revealing that he was spying on him. Gromit stands in front him and tries to both defend Wallace and stop Feathers with a rolling pin. but Feathers pulls out a revolver gun and traps Gromit in the wardrobe at gunpoint, locking the door.in the wardrobe, Gromit manages in the dark to attempt fixing the Techno-Trousers, but instead he accidentally causes the trousers to shake, tumble and eventually start walking across the room after Feathers and the wardrobe tumbles and rolls out the door of the room and down the stairs, and Feathers jumps onto Wallace's electric train-track model set to escape. Wallace and Gromit break out of the wardrobe and jump onto two of the trains, and they have a big action-packed railway train chase after Feathers across the house. eventually, they come to the end of the house where Feathers collides with the trousers and lands in a milk bottle.Wallace and Gromit catch Feathers and take him to the police and give the diamond back to the museum. the police throw Feathers into the West Wallaby city zoo where he is imprisoned in the penguin exhibit, Feathers secretly plans an escape for revenge. Wallace and Gromit pay all their bills using the reward money, and they throw the Techno-Trousers away into the garbage so that it won't cause any more peril. but they don't notice that the trousers turn on again and the trousers walk into the sunset as Wallace and Gromit enjoy a slice of Wensleydale as the credits roll.