At the end of the eighteenth century, Marianne, a young painter, is teaching painting lessons. One of her students asks her about a painting of hers, which Marianne calls "Portrait de la jeune fille en feu."Years previously, Marianne arrives on an isolated island in Brittany. She had been commissioned to paint a portrait of a young woman named Héloïse, who is to be married off to a Milanese nobleman. Marianne is informed that Héloïse has previously refused to pose for portraits, as she does not want to be married; she had been living in a convent before the suicide of her older sister necessitated her return and her betrothal. Marianne acts as Héloïse's hired companion to be able to paint her in secret, and accompanies her on daily walks to memorize Héloïse's features.Marianne finishes the portrait, but finds herself unable to betray Héloïse's trust and reveals her true reason for arriving. After Héloïse criticises the painting, which does not seem to portray her true nature, Marianne destroys the work. Héloïse's mother is shocked to hear that Héloïse is willing to pose for Marianne over the next few days. While her mother leaves for Italy, Héloïse and Marianne's bond grows. One evening, they read the story of Orpheus and Eurydice while debating the true reason why Orpheus turned around to look at his wife. The pair help Sophie, a maid, have an abortion, and the three go to a bonfire gathering where women sing and dance, during which Héloïse's dress briefly catches fire. Meanwhile, Marianne is haunted throughout the house by visions of Héloïse in a wedding dress.The next day, Marianne and Héloïse go to a cave and share their first kiss, and passionately make love later that night. Over the next few days, their romance grows stronger. However, it is cut short by the inevitable return of Héloïse's mother. Marianne sketches drawings of each of them to remember each other, and bids a short farewell. As Marianne runs out of the house, she hears Héloïse say, "Turn around". She turns around and sees Héloïse in her wedding dress, appearing exactly as she did in the visions that haunted Marianne earlier.In the present, Marianne reveals she saw Héloïse two more times. The first time was at a gallery in the form of a portrait, where Héloïse was shown with a child and surreptitiously holding a book showing only the edge of page 28, recalling a self-portrait of Marianne she requested on that page. The second time was at a concert, where Héloïse and Marianne sat across from one another. Although Héloïse did not notice Marianne, she was overwhelmed with emotion as the orchestra played the Presto from "Summer" from Vivaldi's Four Seasons, which Marianne had previously played for her on a harpsichord.