Late one night in a small Italian village, Jiminy Cricket enters the home of elderly woodcarver Geppetto, accompanied by his pet kitten Figaro and fish Cleo. Geppetto has completed work on a marionette puppet which he names Pinocchio. Before retiring to bed, Geppetto makes a wish on a star.A few hours later, the star magically brings Pinocchio to life and he is soon visited by the Blue Fairy, who tells him that if he acts brave, truthful and selfless, he can be a real boy. The Blue Fairy also appoints Jiminy the responsibility of being Pinocchio's conscience to teach him right from wrong.When Geppetto awakens and finds Pinocchio alive, he is at first shocked, but becomes overjoyed. After a few days, Geppetto decides that Pinocchio should attend school and sends him there. However, Pinocchio is soon approached by con-artist fox and cat duo "Honest" John and Gideon as they convince him that he should live a life of fame in order to truly be a real boy, when they really want to sell him to the puppet master Stromboli in exchange for wealth.When Jiminy, with the help of a seagull named Sofia, convinces him to continue going to school, Pinocchio is thrown out on account of being a puppet. Pinocchio decides to go to Stromboli's after all with Jiminy unable stop him when John places a glass jar over him.At Stromboli's theater, Pinocchio befriends one of Stromboli's employees Vitelli and her puppet Sabina. Pinocchio puts on a good show for the crowd but Stromboli locks him in a bird cage to prevent him from ever leaving, wanting to exploit Pinocchio for all he's worth. Soon, Stromboli's coach ends up freeing Jiminy from the jar and when he enters the coach, he manages to help Pinocchio escape when Pinocchio has him reach the keys to the lock on the cage by telling lies since that makes his nose grow. Geppetto, Figaro and Cleo go out to look for Pinocchio when he fails to come home for dinner.Soon, Pinocchio is swiped up by a coach full of children driven by a charismatic Coachman, who is taking the boys and girls to Pleasure Island, an isle where misbehavior is encouraged. When they reach the island, Pinocchio slowly gets disturbed by the amount of cruelty the kids commit, much to the bemusement of an unruly boy named Lampwick. When Jiminy, who got separated from Pinocchio again, makes it to the island, he soon finds out that the boys and girls there get turned into donkeys and the Coachman sells them to the salt-mines with help from his fog-like henchmen. Pinocchio witnesses Lampwick get transformed himself at a pool hall and he and Jiminy escape the island before the Coachman and his goons can get them, but not before Pinocchio gains a donkey's ears and tail.Pinocchio and Jiminy make it back to Geppetto's but find that he's not home because Sofia gave him a flyer of Pleasure Island to let him know where Pinocchio is and that he sold all of his clocks to buy a boat to go there. While trying to find Geppetto, Pinocchio reunites with Vitelli and Sabina, who tell him that Stromboli has been arrested and they have taken over his puppet show. They offer Pinocchio to join them, but Pinocchio declines, wanting to save his father, which makes his donkey parts disappear. Sofia pulls a rope for Pinocchio to hold out to the sea, where they soon find Geppetto in his boat. Just as they reunite, they are swallowed by a giant sea monster named Monstro. They take refuge in a giant boat in Monstro's stomach, and Pinocchio gets the idea to make him sneeze by starting a fire within him. The plan is successful, and Monstro sneezes them out, but he gives a chase that ends with him and the group crashing on dry land and rendering Geppetto unconscious.Pinocchio thinks Geppetto has died, and despairs before Geppetto comes to and soon tells Pinocchio that despite being a puppet, he has proven himself to be a true boy at heart for all that he's done and they depart for home. Jiminy then breaks the fourth wall before ending the film.