Kayla and her father Jay drive to a ballet retreat. On their way they pick up her best friend Britney, who is headed to the same retreat. After pulling over so Britney can go to the bathroom in the woods, Jay hears Kayla scream and finds her sitting alone on a bridge. Kayla claims she pushed Britney off the bridge. Jay checks the area for Britney's body, but does not find it and assumes she drowned. Kayla finds Britney's purse and they go to the office of Rebecca, Kayla's divorced mother.Jay tells Rebecca bits and pieces of what happened. Kayla tells her mother that she murdered Britney. Later at their house, Britney's father Sam appears and asks Jay and Rebecca about his daughter's whereabouts. When he asks to speak to Kayla, Rebecca lies, saying she is at the doctor's office. Sam leaves and says to have Kayla call him. Later, Sam gets suspicious and comes back; he discovers that Rebecca lied and that Kayla is at home. A physical altercation ensues between Sam and Jay, and Sam threatens to report them to the police. Rebecca contacts her ex-colleague Detective Kenji Tagata and says that she suspects Sam abused his daughter. When Kenji interrogates Sam, he denies hitting Britney and notifies them about her disappearance. Kenji interviews Rebecca and Kayla, who explained that Sam had a bad temper and hit Britney.Jay takes Kayla to his apartment. She walks out and is spotted by Sam. He tries to grab her, but she escapes and hides in the house. Sam follows her, banging on her door and screaming her name. Meanwhile, Jay and Rebecca go to Sam's house to bury Britney's phone, but Sam catches them. After a violent altercation with Sam, he tells Jay and Rebecca before they flee that he knows Kayla killed Britney. When Sam shows up in front of their car, Rebecca purposefully hits him. Jay and Rebecca consider calling for help, but stop and watch as Sam bleeds and begs them for help before dying.The next morning, a very much alive and well Britney appears at their house, much to the shock of both Jay and Rebecca. She reveals that her disappearance was an elaborate plan all along, one that she herself created to spend time with her boyfriend. Britney witnesses Jay and Rebecca cleaning blood off their car and acting suspiciously strange. She is uncomfortable and insists on seeing Kayla. Afterwards, Kayla tearfully admits that she went along with Britney's plan to pretend to "push" her off the bridge so that the pseudo-tragedy would bring her divorced parents back together. As the family embraces and Kayla begs her parents not to leave her, incoming police sirens are heard.