Irene Redfield, a light-skinned black woman living in Harlem, meets a childhood friend, Clare, by chance at a hotel. While Irene identifies as African-American and is married to a black doctor, Clare "passes" as white and has married a wealthy white man. Clare invites Irene back to the hotel where she is staying with her husband, John, on his business trip. Clare explains that after her father died, she was raised by two white aunts and married him very young. They are interrupted by John, who openly despises and degrades African-Americans, unaware of his wife's racial background or that Irene is "passing" for the day. Despite this initial, awkward encounter, Clare reaches out to Irene to renew their friendship. After a delay, Irene accepts. As the two women reconnect, they become increasingly involved in each other's lives and insecurities. Clare admits that she misses the African-American background she has had to repress around John, and Irene invites her out to a jazz club with her own husband, Brian, and their friend Hugh. Hugh is unimpressed, but Irene notices obvious chemistry between Clare and Brian. They also discuss their past, and Clare insists that she was jealous of Irene's dependable and moral attitude, while Irene herself envied Clare's vivacious and free-spirited personality. Clare admits she is not like Irene, because she would do whatever it takes to get what she wants, even if it means hurting others. Meanwhile, Irene and Brian argue over how to parent their sons regarding racial issues, and Irene notices that Brian and Clare are becoming close to the point where her own sons are more excited to see Clare. After Irene stays home with the children so Brian can play bridge with Clare, and later defends Clare from a comment by Hugh, she becomes paranoid that they are having an affair, culminating in a fight between her and Brian. Irene attempts to cut off contact with Clare, but Brian foils this by inviting Clare to a tea party for Hugh. Irene drinks heavily and accidentally shatters an heirloom teapot after seeing Brian and Clare speaking intimately, though Hugh protects her in front of the guests. Irene waits anxiously for Clare to return to John and leave the city, but she continues to stay around Irene. When out shopping with her friend Felise, who does not pass as white, Irene encounters John, and hurries away when he begins to realize the truth about his wife's racial background. Though Irene tries to warn Clare, she relents. As the three leave to attend a party, Irene asks Clare what she will do if John ever finds out the truth. When she replies she would move back to Harlem permanently, Irene becomes unnerved and is silent for most of the evening. When she opens a window to smoke, she hears John angrily force himself into the party; as a calm Clare moves to join Irene, John bursts in and furiously declares her a liar. He lunges toward Clare as Irene puts an arm between them. Clare falls out of the window to her death. After some hesitation, Irene slowly goes downstairs to where the other guests are speaking with the police. Upon being questioned, Irene insists that Clare's fall was an accident. Brian seems to realize the truth and comforts Irene as she sobs.