The movie opens on a woman, Miranda Wells, shopping among the fishermen at the docks for her boss/boyfriend's seafood restaurant. She delivers the fish and crabs to the restaurant and is reminded that she has a dentist appointment. Her boss/boyfriend, Tucker Middendorf, reveals to her that he needs to postpone their dinner plans for that evening due to the need to board up the restaurant since a tropical storm/hurricane is approaching their area. At the dentist's office she is told she has some big cavities and needs a root canal, which is very expensive and well beyond her current means. After leaving the dentist she receives a call from Bobbi, who we learn later is her former mother-in-law, who expresses a desire that she go someplace safe since she doesn't think her home is sturdy enough to withstand the storm. Miranda's dialogue throughout all these scenes make it clear she has a very negative outlook on life and constantly expects the worst.In the meantime, we see a man named Bray Johnson check into a local hotel. We see him later at Miranda's home where he meets her son Greg who is fishing while he is home from school. Bray was intending to give Miranda an envelope but says he will bring it back later because it requires explanation. A short time later Miranda has picked up her daughters Chloe and Missy from school. She gets into an argument with Missy and is distracted enough that she rear-ends Brays pickup. His truck isn't hurt but her minivan has minor damage that Bray offers to fix. They don't introduce themselves to each other right away but when he follows her home he realizes who she is. He decides not to give her the envelope right away and fixes the minivan with Greg's help. As he is visiting with Miranda and her children it becomes apparent Bray has a much brighter outlook on life and proffers the idea to the group that much of what happens to us in life is a result of our expectations and our belief that good things will happen. The children had asked for pizza for supper but Miranda had told them that they couldn't afford it but just at that moment a pizza delivery, sent by Tuck, arrives. The predicted wind and rains from the storm start just as Bray is leaving. He decides to put the envelope in Miranda's mailbox instead of giving it to her in person.During the storm in the night the mailbox is blown away and a large limb falls thru Miranda's roof. She and the children huddle together in the bathroom til the morning when they can assess the damage. Bray returns to make sure she got the envelope and sees the mailbox is gone and also all the damage to the home. He again offers his assistance in repairing the roof since he has time before he has to return to his job teaching engineering at Vanderbilt university. Miranda says she can't afford a new roof but Bray outlines a clear plan to fix the major damage that will cost less than a tenth of what she expected so she agrees. Bobbi arrives and it's clear she sees Bray as an interloper that might interfere with her hope that Miranda marry Tucker. Bobbi knows Miranda is in quite a bit of debt and she expresses to Miranda that Tucker is a good-looking man, a dependable provider and obviously cares for her very much. She takes Miranda and the children to her home to stay while Bray completes repairs. They visit Tuck's restaurant and tell him they will be staying at Bobbi's while the house is being repaired. Tucker is curious about the stranger who is repairing the roof so he visits and talks briefly with Bray. Bray makes it clear he has no romantic intentions toward Miranda and is merely helping out because he has the skills and opportunity. We also see Bray have a conversation with a woman who is obviously expecting him to return home soon. That evening Miranda goes for a walk and calls Bray, She expresses uncertainty on how to deal with many things in her life and Bray shares the idea that if she keeps a positive outlook things will eventually become clear. The next day he finishes the roof and has a conversation with MIssy regarding her sixteenth birthday party that gives Missy a much-improved outlook on her own situation. As a result Missy demands that he come to her party the next day, which results in him postponing his departure again.That night at the restaurant's reopening Tucker proposes to Miranda and she accepts. The children are obviously unhappy about the situation but Bobbi is elated. Miranda's reaction seems measured and not overly excited, almost as if she's unsure about it. The children go home with Bobbi again while Miranda and Tucker spend the night together. The next morning Tucker has a brand new vehicle delivered to his apartment as a gift for Miranda. Miranda is appreciative but leaves hurriedly shortly after this, once again not being overly affectionate toward Tucker. At the same time, Bray returns to the house to pick up his tools and has an interaction with Greg and helps him perfect an invention Greg had hoped would help their family make money. That evening at Missy's party Bobbi shows Miranda a file she got from Google that shows Bray with an invention that Miranda's dead husband, Matthew, had previously worked on, talked about and tried to patent. When Miranda confronts Bray with this information he tells her he didn't steal Matthew's invention. He tells the story of having met Matt at an engineering convention and having hit it off with him and being intrigued with some of Matthew's ideas. He tells Miranda he was in the plane next to Matt in the crash that killed him and since then he has been working to get the patent for the idea they discussed together. Miranda tells him to leave which he does.The next day a package is delivered to Miranda. It is a copy of the documents that Bray had originally intended to give Miranda several days before, before they were lost in the storm. Included is a large check for almost the exact amount of Miranda's current debt, which from reading the documents she realizes is probably the first of many to come. She meets with her children and tells them their father has managed to provide for them for a long time with his work before he died and that she couldn't be more proud of him. She also says that Tucker' proposal was a surprise so she hadn't prepared for it but now that she's had time to think she wants to know what they think. All three children express to her that she shouldn't marry Tuck because they don't think she loves him because they remember how in love she was with their father and what that looked like. They also say she should forgive Bray for not telling her upfront about knowing their dad because when Bray was around Miranda seemed happy. Later Miranda goes to the restaurant and breaks off the engagement with Tucker, returning his ring and new car. Tucker is sad but accepts this along with Miranda's resignation as restaurant manager. Later that day after returning from dinner in town with the kids, Greg spots their mailbox in a roadside pond. They retrieve it and find the documents that Bray had tried to give Miranda the day they met. It has a note in it that expresses his regrets for not having told her immediately who he was. The note also says "Matt was a special man who loved his family dearly." Miranda tells Bobbi and the children she plans to finish getting her nursing degree which she apparently quit to raise their family.Miranda decides to visit Bray in Tennessee but unbeknownst to her Bray has returned to Louisiana to see her on the same day. Miranda is met a Bray's door by a woman and at first it seems she will leave without saying anything, thinking the woman is a girlfriend. But Miranda decides to tell the woman "Tell him Miranda stopped by" at which point the woman lights up and tells her "I'm his sister and he's in Louisiana at your house about right now." Miranda and Bray have an all-night phone conversation as they drive back toward each other and they eventually meet at a roadside diner halfway between. Bray says meeting Bobbi at the house the night before gave him a chance to clear the air with her regarding any misunderstanding regarding "stealing" her son's invention. Sometime later we see Miranda's family, including Bobbi, at Bray's house at Christmas time. Bray has ostensibly left to help a neighbor fix a barn but soon after pulls into the yard pulling a horse trailer with a pony for Chloe, which she has repeatedly asked for throughout the film.