In 2003, 38-year-old Oliver Fields (Ewan McGregor), a somewhat solitary graphic artist living in Los Angeles, is quietly grieving after the death of his father, Hal (Christopher Plummer). Two months after Hal's death, Oliver is in a state of functional depression. He had adopted his father's beloved Jack Russell terrier, Arthur, and brings him along nearly everywhere as he cannot bear to hear the dog cry when left alone in the house. Oliver's friends talk him into attending a costume party. With Arthur in tow, Oliver attempts to brave the social gathering. Dressed as Sigmund Freud, Oliver sits by a couch and gives impromptu psychoanalysis to party-goers who ask for it.One of his "patients" is a young woman (Melanie Laurent) who communicates using only a notepad and pen. Despite the speech barrier, they form a bond and Oliver is able to enjoy the rest of the party. As he prepares to take Arthur home, Oliver shyly gives the woman his number. Moments later, as he walks to his car, she calls him and speaks using a code of telephone beeps. They go to her hotel room, where Oliver falls asleep in his costume.The next morning, still using her notepad, the woman explains that she is an actress and must travel to New York for filming. She asks to see Oliver again when she returns, and he happily agrees.During his childhood, Oliver was close with his mother, Georgia (Mary Page Keller). His father was often emotionally absent, which caused tension in the marriage. Years later, Oliver found out that his parents had known about Hal's sexuality from the beginning. Georgia came from a Jewish family and was discriminated against while growing up during World War II, and Oliver realized the emotional pain that surrounded his parents, living in an era when such significant elements of their characters were taboo. It is only after Georgia dies during Oliver's mid-thirties when Hal finally confesses his homosexuality to his son. Having hidden that side of himself for decades, Hal is free to embrace it at age 78 by becoming very active in the local gay community and entering into a relationship with a younger man. Soon afterward, Hal is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer. Oliver stayed by his father's side as his health declinedThe young woman, Anna, returns to L.A. and reunites with Oliver. Oliver is initially hesitant about letting her into his life after a string of failed relationships, but reconsiders when Anna (now speaking) proves to be a smart and understanding person. As their relationship progresses, they reveal painful details of their pasts. Eventually, a smitten Oliver invites Anna to move in with him.A home life together proves to be more stressful than either Oliver or Anna expected. Anna is overcome with emotion at such a large change, which is exacerbated by her worn-down nerves from talking to her depressed and suicidal father, who constantly hounds her with phone calls. Anna tearfully agrees that living with Oliver is not working out, and she returns to New York. Oliver is devastated at the breakup.Some time later, Oliver resolves to contact Anna again. He flies to New York and knocks on the door of her apartment. Receiving no answer, he calls her cell phone and she explains with some amusement that she had not left L.A. since their breakup. She tells Oliver where her spare key is located, and he lets himself into her empty apartment. She gives him a tour over the phone, similar to the tours Oliver gave to Anna and Arthur when they first entered his house.Arriving back in L.A., Oliver invites Anna over. She greets him and Arthur with reserved happiness. Sitting on the bed, Anna and Oliver glance hopefully at each other, timidly contemplating starting their relationship over again.