Miss Taylor's wedding to Mr Weston is a sad day for Mr Woodhouse, but they go to church nonetheless. Emma has orchestrated the match. After the wedding party with Miss and Mrs Bates, Mr Knightly shows up. Mr Frank Churchill, Mr Weston's son - does not. Miss Harriet Smith comes to visit and becomes Emma's new friend. Emma starts making a match for Harriet and Mr Elton, the vicar. Harriet looks to Emma for everything. Harriet is in love with Mr Robert Martin - a farmer, but Emma persuades her to refuse him. They spend more time with Mr Elton and Emma paints Harriet's picture. Mr Elton frames it in a cabinet. Winter brings Isabella and John Knightly, Emma's sister and Knightly's brother, with their 5 children. Harriet is sick over Christmas. The Knightly's, the Woodhouses and Mr Elton go to the Weston's for a dinner party, but as it starts to snow, they leave early. Emma is with Mr Elton, who confesses his love for her. She informs him she has no plans of matrimony. Emma must tell Harriet and she nearly throws the picture and its frame into the fire, but Emma keeps it. As Isabella leaves, Jane Fairfax - Miss Bates' niece, has come to stay. Frank and Jane were at Weymouth in October - the same month as Mr Weston's weather. Emma plays an old English folk tune with sheet music and Jane plays Mozart's sonata in F without. Harriet has an awkward encounter with the Martins. Frank Churchill has returned. They have a ball, where Jane and Knightly duet to 'Drink to me only with thine eyes'. Emma returns to church to find her pew has been taken by Mrs Agusta Elton. There is a public ball, where Mr Elton does not dance with miss Smith, but Knightly does. Knightly loves Emma and is about to profess it when Frank comes in with Harriet who has been attacked by gypsies. After a visit to Donwell, they go to Box Hill, where Emma insults Miss Bates. After being scolded by Mr Knightly, Emma apologises. Frank Churchill is engaged to Jane Fairfax. Harriet is in love with Knightly, but thinks Emma loves him, so they break off their friendship. Emma apologises to Mr Martin and Harriet is engaged to him. Her father is a tradesman from Bristol. Mr Knightly and Emma get married
.