Lara Jean Covey's (Lana Condor) high school sets up a volunteer program; while her boyfriend Peter Kavinsky (Noah Centineo) goes to volunteer with his friends, Lara Jean decides to go to Belleview Retirement Home instead, since that's where her older sister Margot (Janel Parrish) went. On her first day there, she meets Stormy, an eccentric old lady who Margot often talked about and accidentally slips on a pile of gumballs after discovering that John Ambrose McClaren (Jordan Fisher) is also volunteering at Belleview. They talk about the letter, and John Ambrose agrees to let Lara Jean read the letter as long as she gives it back to him afterward. Lara Jean is unable to stop thinking about their conversation and, in addition, is constantly insecure about her relationship with Peter because she can't stop comparing herself with her ex-best friend (and Peter's ex-girlfriend) Gen (Emilija Baranac).On Valentine's Day, Lara Jean witnesses her classmates being serenaded by special a Capella groups and is told by a friend that Peter sent a group to serenade Gen every period, back when they were still dating. This enhances her insecurity, though she forgets about this when she meets with Peter later that day. He gives her a silver necklace and reads a poem he brought for her, which she believes is original but turns out to be two verses of Edgar Allan Poe's "Annabel Lee" with Lara Jean's name replacing the words "Annabel Lee". She is later told by Stormy about the true nature of the poem, which upsets her. He apologizes and tells her he wishes he could write something like that for her, though he means everything in the poem.While volunteering at Belleview, Lara Jean and John Ambrose grow closer and decide to throw a Star Ball for Belleview after discovering some old decorations in the basement; John Ambrose appears to be catching feelings for Lara Jean, who tries but is unable to tell him about her relationship with Peter. Instead, she ends up telling him that their old middle school hangout spot, a tree house, is being torn down due to the new family moving in. They arrange for the whole gang to meet there to dig up the time capsule they buried years ago, including Gen, and take turns unpacking it. However, Gen claims that she didn't put any in the time capsule when they find it empty earlier than they expected. During their "party", Peter gets jealous of John Ambrose and reveals his relationship with Lara Jean. After everyone leaves, Lara Jean and Peter argue but end up making up.The next day, Lara Jean apologizes to John Ambrose for not telling him about Peter, which he forgives her for. She decides to dress up for Peter's game and is waiting for Peter to come out but is pulled aside by Chris to tell her that she saw him with Gen earlier, showing her a photo of them holding each other. Lara Jean confronts Peter and realizes that Peter never stopped talking to Gen and on the ski trip, Peter was waiting for Gen at the hot tub and not Lara Jean, as he was planning to get back together with Gen that night and he and Lara Jean would never have gotten together for real. That is why the video of LJ and Peter at the hot tub was leaked. Gen knew where Peter was going to be. With Peter being in a rush to get to the game, he tells Lara Jean they will have to talk about it later, but she's too hurt and breaks up with him. Lara Jean goes to the tree house sometime later and meets up with Gen, who reveals that Peter was only comforting her as her parents were separating. She says that she only went to Peter because he had undergone the same experience, that Peter is crazy about Lara Jean, and that she shouldn't be doubting him. She also reveals that she had, in fact, put something in the time capsule (a friendship bracelet that matched the bracelet Lara Jean put in the capsule) and was just too embarrassed to show it. Lara Jean starts to realize that she was the one who always had Gen on her mind, not Peter, and makes up with Gen.On the night of the ball, planned for the retirees, Stormy gives Lara Jean a dress and a makeover. She and John Ambrose dance before going outside in the snow. However, when they kiss, Lara Jean realizes that she truly loves Peter and doesn't hold feelings for John. John whispers to LJ stating that Peter's there and she apologizes to him and rushes outside in her dress, only to find Peter waiting outside for her. He states that he was waiting outside since she doesn't like driving in the snow, a fact that she told him on their first date, and says that she can break his heart if she wants to. She says that she loves him instead, and he tells her he loves her back. They kiss and make up, and Lara Jean says in an ending voiceover that she wanted a fairy tale relationship with Peter, but is now satisfied with what she has.