Los Angeles horror hostess Elvira, Mistress of the Dark quits her job after the station's new owner sexually harasses her. She plans to open her act in Las Vegas, but needs $50,000 for the project. Upon learning she is a beneficiary of her deceased great-aunt Morgana Talbot, she travels to Fallwell, Massachusetts, to claim the inheritance, which includes an archaic mansion and Morgana's pet poodle, Algonquin.In Fallwell, Elvira's worldly attitude and revealing clothes leads the conservative town council against her. However, theater operator Bob Redding befriends her. The town's teenagers quickly accept her, much to the chagrin of their close-minded parents, who consider her a bad influence. Bowling alley owner Patty Kellermann is interested in Bob, and succeeds in humiliating Elvira at her late-night gory film festival she was presenting at Bob's theater. Elvira struggles to sell the house, so she can depart for Las Vegas. Meanwhile, she is unaware that her harsh but seemingly harmless uncle Vincent Talbot is actually a warlock and is obsessed with obtaining Morgana's spellbook; he plans to kill Elvira and conquer the world, and has been fueling the townspeople's hostility.Meanwhile, Elvira tries to impress Bob with a home-cooked dinner, but uses the spellbook as a cookbook by mistake and summons a sinister creature that attacks them. Elvira learns that the book was her mother Divana's spellbook, and that Morgana was hiding her to protect her from Vincent. When Elvira tries to unleash the creature against the Morality Club at their picnic, she prepares the brew incorrectly and has an aphrodisiac result; the adults remove each other's clothing without discrimination and are arrested for indecent exposure. When Patty confronts Elvira, the resulting fistfight ends up humiliating Patty by revealing that her brassiere is stuffed.Afterwards, Vincent leads the townspeople in arresting Elvira for witchcraft, which is still illegal in the state. They decide to burn her at the stake. The town's teenagers attempt to free her from jail, but fall and lock themselves into another cell by chance. Bob tries to recover the spellbook from the mansion, but is tied by Vincent, who takes the book. Algonquin transforms into a mouse and unties Bob. Meanwhile, Elvira is tied to the stake and the fire lights up, but she uses Morgana's ring to summon rain that quenches the fire; she escapes with Bob. At the mansion, Elvira and Vincent engage in a magical battle that sets fire to the house. Elvira banishes Vincent to the underworld, while the house and most of the magical artifacts are destroyed.The next day, Elvira prepares to leave town. The townspeople apologize for their behavior, and everyone asks Elvira to stay. She kisses Bob but, as she is homeless, she insists that she must leave. Elvira has inherited Vincent's estate, which included enough money to open her show in Las Vegas. At a Las Vegas hotel, Elvira performs a lavishly produced musical number.