In the 1840s, fossil collector and paleontologist Mary Anning lives with her ailing mother Molly, who helps Mary run a small shop in Lyme Regis, Dorset. Mary spends the early mornings traversing across the beach at low tide in search of fossils for her shop, with tiny ammonites being her most common find. When she returns, she helps her mother wash and polish a collection of eight animal figurines.One day, geologist Roderick Murchison visits Mary's shop accompanied by his wife, Charlotte. He expresses his admiration for Mary's work and offers to pay her for a guided trip to the shore where he can learn from Mary about fossil collecting. While initially antagonistic, Mary accepts his offer. That night, after dinner at the Three Cups, Roderick treats Charlotte coldly as he states now is not the time to have another baby.Roderick returns from his morning trip with Mary to the shoreline and finds Charlotte confined to her bed in a depressed state. He returns to Mary's shop and reveals Charlotte has been sent in convalescence to Lyme Regis and entrusts her to Mary's care, as he will be departing to Europe for a six week expedition. Mary reluctantly agrees, not wanting to pass up on the money. Charlotte begins going out with Mary on her morning beach trips.After bathing in the ocean as part of her rehabilitation, Charlotte falls ill with a high fever. Her physician, Dr. Lieberson, prescribes bed rest and assigns Mary to be her bedside nurse. Mary visits her friend Elizabeth Philpot, from whom she purchases a jar of salve to aid Charlotte's recovery. Mary refuses Elizabeth's offer of coming inside for a visit. A recuperated Charlotte accompanies Mary on more outings and tries to help with domestic chores. Together with Mary, she is able to construct a mirror frame made of cowries. Saddened by her own failed attempts of birthing a child, Charlotte learns that the figurines Molly cleans every day represent her eight deceased children.Dr. Lieberson visits the shop and invites Mary to an evening recital. Mary accepts but insists on bringing Charlotte as well, who she believes has made a full recovery. That night, Charlotte meets and mingles with the townsfolk as an overwhelmed and jealous Mary smokes outside in the rain while watching through the window. They watch a magic lantern show set to cello before Mary leaves and returns home during the rainstorm. Charlotte arrives soon after and finds Mary writing a poem in her art journal.Using the boards from a beached boat, Mary and Charlotte transfer a large rock to the shop. Inside, they find the fossil of an ichthyosaur similar to one Mary found at age 11 and sent to The British Museum. As they clean Mary's tools in preparation for bed, Charlotte kisses Mary and they engage in oral sex. Their relationship blossoms as they gleefully swim in the ocean and share their meals together. A letter soon arrives from Roderick, instructing Charlotte to return home to London. Distraught, Charlotte and Mary have passionate sex the night before Charlotte's departure. Some time later, Molly suffers a fall in her home and dies soon after. Elizabeth visits the now depressed Mary, and expresses her condolences. She encourages Mary to not abandon her relationship with Charlotte, as Mary did with their own romantic relationship after the death of Mary's father.Mary receives a letter from Charlotte asking her to make the journey to London. Upon arriving at the Murchison house, Mary sees one of her large ammonite fossils on display in a glass cabinet. Charlotte takes Mary upstairs, where she shows Mary a fully furnished bedroom for Mary to move into. Perturbed, Mary demands to know why this was not mentioned in Charlotte's letter. She leaves after accusing Charlotte of not respecting her life, stating she will not become an ornament for Charlotte to display in a "gilded cage."At the museum, Mary makes her way through the halls of paintings and sculptures. She finds the exhibit case containing her original ichthyosaurus but finds it makes no mention of her. Charlotte arrives and the two women gaze at each other through the glass as the other museum guests view the exhibits around them.