Tommaso and Cecilia are two young Neapolitan boyfriends. They lead a regular life with their usual friends: he has a restaurant in Borgo Marinari next to Castel dell'Ovo, near the bookshop of their friend Amedeo, celibate and bigoted, with a teenage sister named Chiara who is in love with Tommaso. The marriage of the two is approaching, but Cecilia's jealousy risks ruining everything: during a moment of intimacy she thinks she hears Tommaso pronounce the name of another woman, Elena; on another occasion he takes him by the hair when he learns that another woman has been looking for him on the phone. Finally, while choosing the favors he makes a scene thinking about the ghosts of these hypothetical rivals, until he tells him, over the intercom, that he intends to leave him, not to marry again and to disappear.Collecting the voices of friends, Tommaso learns that Cecilia is engaged to Enea, an adventurer older than her, dedicated to many activities, who promises her great horizons but a modest, if not inconsistent, present. Tommaso cannot understand how Cecilia manages to fall in love with a man who is not good-looking and, moreover, with a name he finds ridiculous, while everyone, to his amazement, finds him handsome and fascinating. In the meantime, Amedeo gets engaged to Flora, Giorgio's ex-girlfriend, a mutual friend. Amedeo's sister, failing to conquer Tommaso, tries to poison him with rat poison in the coffee, and on another occasion, out of jealousy, she will also set fire to Enea's car.Tommaso also tries the path of white magic with a self-styled witch to fix things: he brings her some locks of Cecilia, Aeneas and Clare's hair, asking to make the girl and Aeneas disappear from his life, and to bring Cecilia back to him. The two eventually get back together, and are found in flagrant amorous effusions in the library by Aeneas himself, who with resignation reveals to Thomas that he adores Cecilia to the point of not being able to touch her with a finger. The two young people, having found each other, resume organizing their wedding. However, on the wedding day it is Thomas who does not show up at the altar. He sends a letter to Cecilia giving her an appointment in a bar, where she also arrives in her wedding dress. Here he confides to her that man and woman are not made for marriage. She agrees, and the two arrange to go out at nigh