In the opening scene, three teenage girls, Frankie (Gideon Adlon), Tabby (Lovie Simone), and Lourdes (Zoey Luna), try to freeze time with magic, but fail to do so as they require a fourth member.Lily Schechner (Cailee Spaeny) moves into the town with her therapist mother, Helen (Michelle Monaghan), to live with Helen's new husband Adam Harrison (David Duchovny) and his three sons, Jacob (Charles Vandervaart), Isaiah (Donald MacLean Jr.), and Abe (Julian Grey). The three teenage boys are awkward around Lily while she feels out of place.The next day during Lily's first day at her new high school, the three girls befriend Lily after she has her period in class and is mocked by her other classmates, especially Timmy Andrews (Nicholas Galitzine). They give her a pair of shorts to replace her blood-stained jeans. The next day, they are more amazed when Lily telekinetically pushes Timmy into the lockers when he mocks as she walks past him. As a result, both are sent to after-school detention. During detention, Lily responds to them using only her mind she makes an excuse to leave for the day and meets with them outside school where they confirm her to be their fourth member and invite her to join their coven, to which she agrees. As a result, they succeed in freezing time during their first conjuring spell.To seek revenge on Timmy, the girls cast a spell on him. They break into his house while he and his parents are out for the evening and chant a spell using something personal they found on Timmy (presumably to be a used condom). The next day during class, Timmy behaves sensitively, confirming the girls' success.Lily, Frankie, Tabby and Lourdes continue to experiment with their powers, including levitation. When Adam discovers about the incident in school, he scolds Lily but Helen defends her. Lily overhears them arguing and goes outside where Abe talks to her about his father's authoritarian beliefs.Timmy hosts a party, inviting the coven, and apologizes to Lily, eventually becoming friends with the coven. When Timmy is at Lily's home for a project with Jacob, he admits to the girls that he had sex with Isaiah, Jacob's elder brother, and that he is bisexual. Later, Lily places a love spell on Timmy, using his sweatshirt, and the two kiss.The next morning, during class, the coven is told by their teacher that Timmy allegedly committed suicide the night before. Lily opens up to her friends about her kiss and love spell. As a result, they sever ties with her and bind themselves from magic.Lily begins to suspect Adam to be dangerous and asks her mother for them to move out, but she does not agree. In hopes to find anything against Adam, she searches his office only to find her own adoption papers while Helen admits to her that Lily is actually her patient's child.After Timmy's funeral, Helen tells Lily she agrees to move out. She also admits that she knows about her powers and asks her to give her powers to her. When Lily suspects her, Helen shape-shifts and turns out to be a disguise by Adam, who, being part of a pagan cult, has been after her powers since the beginning and knocks her unconscious.Lily awakens in a forest at night with Adam, who confesses that he murdered Timmy and threatens to kill her too unless she transfer her Wicca powers to him. When Timmy contacts Lily's friends and tells them about his murder through a Ouija board, they arrive to save Lily by freezing time, but Adam subdues them quickly. The girls then work together and use their elemental powers to defeat Adam, burning him to death.Later, Lily continues her friendship with the girls as they decide bind their powers in the hope to learn to further control them. Just then Helen picks up Lily and drives her to a nearby clinic hospital/asylum to meet her birth mother. In the final scene, Lily walks through the hospital corridor and enters a room where she meets and introduces herself to her birth mother for the first time.... who is revealed to be Nancy Downs (Fairuza Balk).