In 1994, Deena and Josh Johnson restrain Sam, Deena's girlfriend who is possessed, and travel to C. Berman's house for help. Initially reluctant, Berman allows them inside and begins recounting the events of Camp Nightwing.On July 19, 1978, Ziggy Berman from Shadyside is accused of stealing by Sheila, a Sunnyvale camper, and her friends. They rope her to a tree and begin to burn her before camp counselors Nick Goode and Kurt intervene. Cindy, Ziggy's older sister, and her boyfriend Tommy Slater are cleaning the mess hall when Nurse Lane, Ruby Lane's mother, attacks Tommy, saying that he will die that night, before she is removed from camp. The teenagers from Sunnyvale believe she was possessed by Sarah Fier, as was her daughter. Later, she and Tommy go to the infirmary to investigate her motive where they encounter counselors Alice, Cindy's former friend, and her boyfriend Arnie. They find Lane's diary which says that Fier made a deal with the devil by cutting her hand on Satan's stone, thereby earning eternal life. They also find a map in the diary leading to Fier's house.When the group reach the house, they find empty graves dug up by Nurse Lane and discover the witch's mark below the house. Alice and Cindy find a wall carved with the names of all the Shadyside killers and Tommy's name included. Tommy, now possessed, kills Arnie with an axe. He chases the girls but they escape through an entrance into a cave. At camp, Nick helps Ziggy prank Sheila and lock her in the outhouse. The two bond and they share a kiss. Tommy reaches the camp and murders several Shadyside campers, including counselor Joan. Nick takes the campers to the mess hall, before leaving to find the others while Ziggy goes to find Sheila. Nick instructs Kurt to take the campers to the bus and ring the bell before they leave to alert the others.Meanwhile, Cindy and Alice try to escape using the witch's mark in the diary as a map. They come across a pile of beating organs, which, when Alice touches, gives her flashbacks of all the past killers and their victims. After Alice injures her leg, she reconciles with Cindy and the two try to escape beneath the outhouse. After fighting Sheila and knocking her unconscious, Ziggy and counselor Gary try to rescue Alice and Cindy until Tommy arrives and kills Gary. Ziggy escapes and hides with Nick, but the two are found by Tommy. He injures Nick, but Ziggy escapes to the mess hall. As the bus leaves, Cindy finds a route to the mess hall, while Alice stays behind. Meanwhile, Tommy attacks Ziggy, but Cindy intervenes and kills him. Alice arrives and tells them that she found the witch's hand. She had started bleeding and realized that she was sitting near Satan's stone, where she dug it out.The trio decide to end the curse by reuniting Sarah's hand when Ziggy suddenly bleeds on the hand and sees a vision of Sarah Fier. This triggers the curse resurrecting several Shadyside killers. Tommy rises and kills Alice, but Cindy decapitates him. Ziggy and Cindy run to the tree where the witch was hanged, with the Shadyside killers in pursuit. They dig and find a rock saying "The witch forever lives". The killers come and Cindy realizes they are after Ziggy. She drops the hand and sacrifices herself. The two are murdered and the killers disappear, until Nick finds them and saves Ziggy via CPR.Deena and Josh realize that Christine is actually "Ziggy" Berman. They tell her that they found the witch's body and now, with the hand, they can end the curse. The camp was turned into Shadyside Mall, where Deena and Josh go and dig out the hand under the same tree. They take it to the place where the body is buried and Deena reunites the body with the hand. Deena's nose bleeds and she sees a vision where she is in 1666 as Sarah Fier.