Macbeth and Banquo, having led King Duncan's army to victory over the traitorous Thane of Cawdor, are approached by three witches on the battlefield. The witches hail Macbeth will be promoted from the Thane of Glamis to Cawdor; they proclaim that he shall be King hereafter before stating that Banquo shall father a line of kings. King Duncan orders the Thane of Ross to execute Cawdor and reinvest the title upon Macbeth.Macbeth becomes alarmed and triggered after Duncan names his son Malcolm as the prince of Cumberland, seeing the appointment as an encumbrance in his path to the throne. Macbeth writes to Lady Macbeth, informing her of the prophecies.When Duncan decides to spend a night at Macbeth's castle, Lady Macbeth convinces her husband to commit regicide. She drugs the King's servants, and a hesitant Macbeth carries out the killing. Early next morning, Macduff, the Thane of Fife, discovers the body, while Macbeth murders the servants to tie up loose ends. Fearing for his own life, Duncan's heir Malcolm flees to England, and Macbeth assumes the throne as the new King. Uneasy over the prophecy concerning Banquo, Macbeth arranges to have him and his son Fleance murdered. Macbeth's assassins, accompanied by Ross as the Third Murderer, kill Banquo. Ross then pursues Fleance through a field.An increasingly paranoid Macbeth becomes a tyrant. At a royal banquet, he hallucinates and begins raving at Banquo's ghost and embarrasses himself in front of everybody. Lady Macbeth has the guests dismissed before drugging him to calm him down. During his trance, Macbeth is again visited by the witches. They conjure a vision of Fleance, who tells him to beware of Macduff, that he shall be King until Great Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane Hill, and that he shall be harmed by no man born of a woman. Macbeth orders the whole Macduff household be put to death, the wife and children are killed but Macduff himself survives, having earlier fled to England.A guilt-ridden Lady Macbeth begins sleepwalking and gradually descends into madness. Ross secretly visits England and informs Macduff of his family's demise. A grief-stricken Macduff vows revenge, while Malcolm raises an army with English help. The troops cut down branches from Birnam Wood, using them as camouflage, and march on Macbeth's castle at Dunsinane, fulfilling one of the prophecies.Lady Macbeth dies (or is killed), plunging Macbeth into further despair. Still convinced of his invincibility, he is ultimately challenged by Macduff to a duel. Macduff declares he is not born of a woman but instead "untimely ripped". Macbeth initially refuses but ultimately accepts Macduff's challenge. Macduff bests Macbeth and beheads him, fulfilling the final prophecy.Malcolm is crowned the new King of Scotland. Meanwhile, Fleance is revealed to be alive, and Ross spirits him away from Scotland.