Black Swans is a family-owned private military company led by American citizens William Lewis and his adult children Grace and Oliver. SAS commander George Clements hires them to clear a remote village in Georgia for a transnational Britgaz gas pipeline. When the village resists, Black Swans massacre them. Their atrocities are secretly filmed, leading to red notices and accusations of crimes against humanity. The International Criminal Court demands that the UK extradite the accused, who live in North London, to the Hague to stand trial. Prime Minister Atwood secretly orders Clements to kill William on the scene instead of arresting to cover up his involvement.SAS operator Tom Buckingham, who was involved in serving the red notice, takes his girlfriend, Dr. Sophie Hart, on a romantic train journey from London to Paris where he intends to propose to her. Sophie is unsure whether they understand each other properly, whereas Tom is unsure whether he truly loves her. The remnants led by Grace Lewis hijack their train while it is en route in the Channel Tunnel, taking all of the passengers on board hostage at gunpoint. Using his military skills, Tom escapes from the train and evades capture. When he attempts to rescue Sophie, she refuses to leave the other passengers, who may need medical assistance, and asks him to save a young girl.Tom regularly updates his position and sends intelligence to Declan Smith, a member of the SAS Counter Insurgency Team and his friend. Declan, who has been bribed by the Black Swans, sends a rescue team into a trap. Grace asks for a $500 million ransom from Britgaz or else she will blow up the tunnel and reveal the secret Britgaz Gas Pipeline in the tunnel. After inviting Clements to negotiate, Grace records their conversation. Grace finds out via Declan that Tom's girlfriend is on the train and takes her hostage. Tom returns to the train but fails to save Hart. Grace escapes with Sophie through the gas pipeline, pursued by Tom. Grace's team uploads the video of Clements and tries to escape among the hostages, but SAS snipers kill them. Upon not finding Grace among the hostages, Clements realizes that Declan is guilty.Once out of the pipe, Grace blows up the pipeline, and Tom narrowly escapes. Clements and all of the SAS operatives appear to be killed in the explosion excluding Declan. Grace stabs Sophie on her thigh and runs away. Sophie says she finally understands Tom and asks him to catch Grace instead of being with her. After catching up with Grace and killing her, Tom realizes that he loves Sophie. During their trip, Tom proposes to Sophie. She refuses at first, believing him incapable of love, but agrees after seeing his emotional reaction. The UK PM and Britgaz representative are questioned, and all blame is transferred to Declan, the sole surviving member of Grace's team. Tom and Sophie get married in Spain, during which Tom is briefed by his superior, Clements, who survived the explosion, to find Declan.(copied from Wikipedia)