Many generations after the events of Princess Twilight Sparkle in the fourth generation ("Friendship Is Magic" and "My Little Pony: The Movie"), the land of Equestria is now entirely three-dimensional and all breeds of ponies - Earth ponies, Unicorn ponies and Pegasi ponies - all live separately apart. Twilight and the Mane 6 are now merely a legend, which barely anypony believes in. due to magic now being a myth, all ponies believe other ponies are evil. an orange Earth pony, Sunny Starscout, is told by her father that the legend is real. and, hoping to one day prove it to Equestria (especially Sunny's two friends, Sprout Cloverleaf and Hitch Trailblazer), make a homemade poster invitation to the Earth pony seaside town of Maritime Bay which they off in a red lantern.years pass after Sunny's father has died, Sunny and her friends are now grown up and Hitch works as Maritime Bay's Sheriff (Sprout assists Hitch as Deputy sheriff). things in Maritime Bay are only worse now that Sprout's mother, Phyllis Cloverleaf, has founded a security company called "Canterlogic" to attack non-Earth ponies. whilst Sunny still is determined to fix Equestria, she is failing and her friends still do not believe her. suddenly a curious unicorn named Isobella "Izzy" Moonbow appears at Maritime Bay, Sunny saves her from being arrested by Hitch and Sprout and escapes Maritime Bay with her. Hitch sets off to search for them, leaving a jealous Sprout in charge as substitute sheriff. as sheriff, Sprout turns the citisens of Maritime Bay into a hostile army and uses Phyllis' factory to construct a giant mechanical war machine called the "Sproutous Maximus", secretly planning to destroy all non-Earth ponies and rule Equestria. Sprout eventually becomes a dark evil dictator-like mayor obsessed with power and takes rule of Maritime Bay.after Sunny and Izzy escape Maritime Bay, Sunny asks Izzy if she has any magic. but Izzy tells Sunny that no unicorn has had any magic for generations. determined to discover deeper, Sunny and Izzy become friends and travel to the city of Zephyr Heights, the home of the pegasi. but once there they are captured and imprisoned by their ruler, Queen Haven. in the dungeon, Haven's younger daughter (who is also a pop icon and social media superstar), Princess Phillippa "Pipp" Petals, tells them that only the royal family can fly. but when they are left alone, her older sister (who is also a scientist, sports athlete and detective), Princess Zephyrina "Zipp" Storm, frees and befriends them and reveals to them that royal pegasi only fake flying via see-through wires and no pegasi can actually fly. Zipp shows the two friends her room in the palace, and they notice an image on the window of two magical crystals. they realise that the magic must have disappeared due to a crisis related to the crystals, and that one of the crystals is part of Queen Haven's crown. they plan to steal the crown in order to get the crystal.that night, the royals host a pop concert at the Zephyr Heights Palace with all the pegasi in the city. while Pipp performs her new single "Glowin' Up", Sunny and Izzy sneak in with Zipp and replace Haven's crown with a fake while she is distracted by Pipp's singing. Hitch also disguises as a Pegasus and sneaks in. while they attempt to escape the palace, they accidentally enter the control room where the stallion controlling the lights and wire movements get horrified by the non-Pegasus ponies and accidentally freezes the wires and lights in the wrong place, causing Pipp to be revealed to not fly and Hitch losing his disguise in public. all 5 ponies escape Zephyr Heights and discuss the situation. after consideration, Hitch and Pipp agree to help the others find the other crystal and together they camp for the night. during the camp, Izzy reveals to Sunny that the poster invitation she made with her father was what made her want to go to Maritime Bay.Izzy leads the group to the Bridlewood Forest, the home of all unicorns. at her home, Izzy creates fake horns to disguise the group as unicorns in order to get the unicorn crystal. they find a crystal collector unicorn stallion who tells them that he found the crystal but lost it in a game to Alphabittle Blossomforth, a unicorn stallion who is the owner of a Bridlewood restaurant and a game champion who hosts competitions. Sunny challenges Alphabittle to a dancing contest to win the crystal, and wins. but shortly afterward loses her disguise and revealing herself to be an Earth pony. the five ponies try to escape the woods, but run into Queen Haven while being chased by Pegasus guards and causes and commotion between all the ponies. they decide to break up the commotion by putting the crystals together, hoping to activate the magic, but fail.they separate and Sunny returns home with Hitch to weep in her room, until she finds a clear crystal inside her bedroom lamp. she tells Hitch shortly before Sprout appears with the Sproutous Maximus and pursues them to find the other ponies. Sunny and Hitch warn the others, prompting them all to go to Sunny's lighthouse home to put the crystals together. Sprout finds them at Sunny's house and attempts to destroy the house in order to destroy Sunny and all her friends, but his plan is foiled by Hitch and Zipp who sabotage his machine, although accidentally destroying both Sprout's mech and Sunny's house in the process (although Sprout survives). Sunny and her friends unite together and put together each crystal, bringing magic back to Equestria and transforming Sunny into an alicorn. as Hitch is sheriff again, Sunny's lighthouse is rebuilt and Sprout is fired and becomes a janitor, a new generation of magic and friendship has begun.