Beckett (John David Washington), an American tourist, leaves Athens, Greece with his girlfriend April (Alicia Vikander) to escape political unrest there. While driving to their hotel, Beckett falls asleep at the wheel and crashes their car into a nearby house.As Beckett is trying to recover, he sees a red-headed child hurried out of the room by a woman. He gets out of the car and sees that his girlfriend has been killed by the accident. He is later then awoken in a hospital room with a broken arm. When he is later being interviewed by the police, he is told it is lucky the house was abandoned and empty. He tells an English-speaking, bearded police officer (Panos Koronis) that it was not empty and he saw a red-headed boy. After leaving the police station he goes back to the house his car crashed into with sleeping pills, with the intention of killing himself. As he is beginning to take the pills, a blonde woman outside the building starts shooting at him. After he hides in a bush, the same bearded police officer he told about the boy pulls up and calls to him, saying there has been a mistake and to come out. When he stands, the blonde-haired woman shoots him in the arm. He flees as both the woman, and the officer shoot at him and gives chase. He jumps off a cliff into a tree and escapes.The next morning, Beckett is awakened by hunters in a wrecked truck he was taken refuge in. The hunters bring Beckett back to town and an older hunter takes Beckett to his house to see to his wound. Beckett tells him about the officer shooting him when there is suddenly a knock at the door. It was the same officer and blonde woman who shot at him earlier. The old hunter goes to the door to try to get rid of them and is attacked. Beckett jumps out of a window to escape again. He happens upon two beekeepers who lend him a phone. He calls the US embassy in Athens, which is about 5 hours away by car, and they tell him they can come to get him the next day. Beckett tells them he will come to them. He begins walking towards a distant train station when he comes upon a school field trip, who gives him a ride to the train station. He does not see out the window that the bearded police officer also had got on the same train. The officer sits next to Beckett and tells him the beekeepers told him Beckett would be on the train. When the officer attempts to detain him, Beckett pulls the train's brake and in the ensuing struggle, the officer ends up getting shot in the foot and Beckett once again escapes.In town, Beckett sees posters of the red-headed boy being put up by two female activists, Lena and Eleni. They tell him that the boy is the kidnapped son of a liberal politician who has been kidnapped by a far-right organization. They hide Beckett in their trunk and drive him to Athens. Beckett is eventually forced to leave the car to avoid a police roadblock and heads down to the subway station to take a train to get closer to the US Embassy. While trying to avoid the police at the subway station, he is attacked by a knife-wielding man. Beckett escapes across the tracks and is helped directly to the embassy. There he finds out his girlfriend's body has been shipped there, and he is taken to the morgue by an embassy staff member (Boyd Holbrook) to view her body.The staff member offers to take him to an honest cop to sort things out, but after they eventually left the embassy, tries to taser Beckett. Beckett instead was able to turn the taser on him and escape after the car crashes. Beckett goes to where the activists told him they were headed to try and warn them. The embassy staff member arrives with the police and chases Beckett to a political rally. Shots are fired at the rally and Beckett runs into a mall basement, where he is confronted by the man from the embassy, armed with a gun, who tells him the liberal politician has been killed. Becket fights him and knocks him out. He goes up to the rally area and sees the blonde woman who shot him. He follows her to a parking garage, where she meets up with the bearded cop. Before they can escape, Beckett shoots the cop in the hand and fights with the blonde woman. He is shot but manages to knock her out. He then runs after the bearded cop who is fleeing the parking garage with the red-headed boy in the trunk. Beckett manages to jump onto the car from the top of the parking garage and knocks out the bearded cop, finally rescuing the boy from the trunk. In the final scene, Beckett looks down at his palm and notices a heart his girlfriend drew on his hand, reflecting on how he should have died.