In 2044, the United States has suffered economic collapse, causing severe social decay and growth in organized crime. In addition, a strange mutation has occurred in 10% of the population, giving them minor telekinetic powers, manifested by their ability to float small objects. They are referred to as TKs. Thirty years into the future in 2074, time travel will be invented, and then immediately outlawed. However, because by that point tracking technology has rendered it nearly impossible to dispose of bodies secretly, the crime bosses in the future resort to time travel to send their targets to the past. The victims are tied up, bagged, thrown in the time machine, and transported back to 2044, whereupon they are immediately shot dead by hired contract killers known as Loopers. Loopers then collect their payment through the bars of silver attached to the backs of their victims.There's a caveat to working as a Looper: the severe sanctions on time travel mean that the crime bosses in the future will eventually need to end a Looper's contract, and also eliminate any traces of their working relationship. When this happens, assuming the Looper is still alive in 2074, he will be sent back in time to be killed by his younger self, a process known as "closing one's loop". A Looper will know that this has happened when their victim has bars of gold strapped to his back instead of the usual silver. Once a Looper closes their loop, they're released from their contract and have 30 years to live their lives in comfort.Joseph "Joe" Simmons (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), 25, works for a mafia company in Kansas City as a Looper. Joe's boss, Abe (Jeff Daniels), was sent back in time to manage the Loopers, and also owns a club where Joe frequents and spends time with Suzie (Piper Perabo), a showgirl. Just handling the Loopers would be boring, so Abe has also hired muscle in the present day to help him run a criminal empire. These men are known as the Gat Men, led by a guy named Kid Blue (Noah Segan). Gat Men are so named for their Magnum revolvers, which have greater range and accuracy than the Loopers' "blunderbusses", short-range shotguns that are designed strictly for close quarters.While at the club one evening, another Looper announces that he has just closed his loop. The big payoff in gold is reason to party. As Joe continues his work, he and the other Loopers begin to notice that loops are being closed at an increasing pace.Things come to a head when one night, Seth (Paul Dano), Joe's friend and a fellow Looper, visits him in a panic telling him that he failed to close his loop as he was expected to do. Seth claims that when his older self appeared, he was singing a song his mother had sung to him when he was a baby. Seth couldn't bring himself to kill him. But then Old Seth told him that a new crime boss called the Rainmaker has commenced a reign of terror in the future and is now closing all the loops. Before Seth can reveal more, the Gat Men come knocking at Joe's door, forcing him to hide Seth in his apartment floor safe. The Gat Men suspect Joe is harboring Seth, so they take him in to Abe.Abe makes a deal with Joe. If he gives up Seth, he will walk free. If he doesn't, they can't kill Joe because of how it could upset things in the future, but they can definitely make things difficult for him by taking half of the silver they know he's been saving up for his retirement in France. Joe immediately gives up Seth. Abe suggests Joe go to China instead of France. "I'm from the future. You should go to China." Joe is let go, and given a free lap dance with Suzie, while Abe orders Kid Blue to call "the Doc" so they can exact retribution on Seth.Elsewhere, Old Seth attempts to climb a barb-wire fence, but notices old scars appearing on his arm, spelling out words telling him to go to an address. When he ignores this, his right pinkie finger disappears. Shortly after, his ring and middle fingers disappear. The stubs are not bloody - as if the digits were removed many years earlier. Then the tip of his nose is cut off. Old Seth returns to his car, and frantically drives to the address he was given. Just as he arrives, he loses his right foot, causing him to lose control of the car and crash. As he gets out and frantically limps towards the address, both of his legs disappear, and he falls to the ground and crawls the rest of the way to the door. He bangs on the door. Seconds later, Kid Blue opens the door and shoots him dead. As Kid Blue holsters his gun and carries the remains of Old Seth inside, we can see Young Seth, alive on an operating table where they were chopping off his body parts, and hooked up to a ventilator, which will keep him alive for the next 30 years.Joe continues to do killings. After each killing, he visits a diner, and works on his French lessons. He is served by a waitress named Beatrix (Tracie Thoms). While waiting to do one killing, he is puzzled when the victim is late. When the person does appear, he has no bag over his head and his hands aren't tied. To Joe's shock, it's his older self, (Bruce Willis) and after a brief staredown, he tries to shoot him. Old Joe spins around, and uses the gold strapped to his back to deflect the bullet. He grabs a gold bar and throws it at Young Joe, then knocks him out with a punch.When Joe regains consciousness, the sun is setting. He finds a note, telling him to get out of town. Instead, Joe returns to his apartment, where he finds the Gat Men searching it and removing his silver. He traps Kid Blue in his floor safe, but is winged by another Gat Man, falls from his fire escape and lands on a car parked below, falling unconscious.At this point, the movie pauses to show us the timeline that Old Joe comes from. In this timeline, Joe closes his loop, and moves to Shanghai per Abe's advice. Despite having saved up half his silver, Joe manages to blow through his funds within ten years thanks to heavy drug usage and partying. By 2054, he's resorted to becoming a contract killer for local crime gangs. Over the 13 years that follow, his hair falls out, leaving him mostly bald. In 2067, he meets a beautiful, caring woman in the midst of a bar fight. She helps him get sober, and two years later, he marries her and settles down. Things are relatively peaceful for the next three years, until 2074.One morning, as the news are reporting on a terrorist attack by the Rainmaker, three armed men with wide-brimmed hats break into Joe's house, kidnap him, burn down his house, and take him to the time machine so they can send him back to close his loop. He manages to slip the zip ties they're using to restrain him, gets his hood off, and kills his attackers. He then jumps into the time machine. We see the previous events unfold, this time from Old Joe's perspective, revealing that after knocking Young Joe out, he stole his truck, hit up a drugstore for first aid supplies and clothing, then went to Young Joe's apartment. He sees Young Joe fall from the balcony. He promptly rescues him, killing the Gat Man who was shooting at Young Joe, and disappears again.Old Joe looks up some cryptic numbers at the library, when letters begin to form on his right arm spelling out "Beatrix." It's a message from Young Joe to meet him at the diner. They order identical meals. Old Joe asks Joe how his French lessons are going, then says in French: "I know you have a gun under the table pointed at me." When Young Joe doesn't understand, Old Joe says "It's okay that you didn't get all that. You will." As Old Joe says, he's glad he learned the language. Old Joe tells Joe more about the Rainmaker: he appeared out of nowhere, and single-handedly took control of all the major crime syndicates within six months. He's responsible for mass executions and vagrant purgings, and he ordered the closing of all loops. The syndicate men killed Old Joe's wife by accident when Old Joe was captured. Not too long before Old Joe got sent back, Old Dale (one of Joe's Looper colleagues) gave him a numerical sequence that hints at finding the Rainmaker's identity. Old Joe knows that in Joe's present, the child who will grow up to become the Rainmaker is living in the same county. If Old Joe can kill the Rainmaker, then he'll never be captured, and his wife would still be alive. The Rainmaker's practically a myth, and the only things known for certain are that he watched his mom get killed in front of him, and that he might have a synthetic jaw.They tussle when Old Joe realizes that Young Joe still plans to kill him. But it isn't long before both Joes notice that the diner has cleared out, and the staff and customers have disappeared as if anticipating an attack. Suddenly, Gat Men burst in and ambush them. Under fire, Old Joe gives Joe a piece of a map with an address marked and a string of digits, and tells him that the Rainmaker may live there. Young Joe and the Gat Men shoot at Old Joe as he runs off. Then the Gat Men start shooting at Young Joe, who also runs off.Young Joe manages to evade his pursuers, and follows the coordinates to a farmhouse owned by Sara (Emily Blunt), who lives with her son Cid Harrington (Pierce Gagnon). When Joe shows Sara the map, Sara recognizes the digits as Cid's birthday and the serial number of the hospital where he was born, prompting Young Joe to explain the situation about the Rainmaker. Sara proves to know a lot about Loopers and how they work. The database Old Joe used with the string of digits produced three possible children born on the same day in the same hospital, and he is intent on killing them.Sara warns Cid to stay away from Joe, but Cid is curious. He befriends Joe, and shows him some of the electronics gear he is playing with. Cid builds transmitters so Joe and Sara can signal each other. Joe is very impressed with the advanced work the five-year-old is doing.Old Joe tracks down one of the potential Rainmaker children heading to a birthday party. He kills him, but when he realizes he is still existing in his past, he breaks down crying. He has killed the wrong child. He then heads to the other child's place, but is hesitant when he realizes it's where Suzie, his old flame from 30 years earlier, is living with her son. Instead of killing the child right away, he watches their apartment.As Young Joe and Sara become close, he learns that she is a TK with slightly more power than the other TKs, and that Cid was raised by Sara's sister for two years until she was somehow killed. Cid thinks Sara's sister was his mother, and does not believe that Sara is his real mother. Sara is shown to be frightened of Cid, running to her room and hiding in a safe when Cid gets angry at her in his belief that she's lying about being his mother.The next day, one of the Gat Men, Jesse (Garret Dillahunt), comes looking for Joe. Cid helps him escape, and Jesse leaves. While Cid and Joe are alone hiding from Jesse, Joe tells him how his own mother gave him to the Panhandlers, so that he grew up without her, a moment later saying that she sold him and that she used drugs. We see how being motherless led Joe to become a killer, a drug user, and in time, a Looper. Jesse is suspicious of Sara, and returns, holding Sara at gunpoint when Joe comes down the stairs. As Joe tries to reason with Jesse, Cid starts to come down the stairs. Startled by Jesse, Cid falls down the stairs and goes into a rage. He lets out a massive telekinetic blast, killing Jesse. Jesse's blood "rains" out of his chest, implying how the Rainmaker's name was coined. Cid's extraordinary telekinetic abilities confirm to Joe that Cid is the Rainmaker, and that Sara's sister was killed by Cid when he lost control of his powers. Joe finds Cid in the sugarcane fields, crying, and comforts him. Sara helps Joe realize that this boy needs love, and may not turn into the Rainmaker if he is raised in a loving home.Meanwhile, Kid Blue has tracked down Old Joe to Suzie's apartment, and captures him when he breaks inside to kill the child.Young Joe tells Sara and Cid to flee, surmising that his employers and/or Old Joe will target the farm. Old Joe breaks free, killing Abe and all the Gat Men except for Kid Blue, who is shot in the foot. As the two Joes confront each other near Sara's house, Kid Blue attacks and is killed by Young Joe.Sara and Cid attempt to drive away, but Old Joe starts shooting at their truck. Cid wants Sara to stop the truck so they don't come closer, but instead, Sara steps on the gas, hoping to run Old Joe over. Getting scared, Cid uses his TK powers to cause the truck to flip. He and Sara attempt to run into the sugarcane fields to hide. Old Joe attempts to shoot them ,and the bullet grazes Cid's cheek. Cid goes into another rage and uses a blast of his TK powers to suspend Sara and Old Joe in the air.Young Joe has been following after Old Joe in his truck, which is knocked over by the TK blast. Sara calms Cid, telling him repeatedly that she loves him and he'll be okay. Cid calms down and ends his TK storm. Sara hugs Cid, and he calls her 'Mom' for the first time, showing Joe that Cid can be controlled. Recovering, Old Joe grabs his gun, ready to shoot Cid. Sara sends Cid into the cane fields and uses her body as a shield, preventing Old Joe from shooting. As Old Joe prepares to fire, time flashes for Young Joe, who realizes that the cycle of revenge is running in a loop. He imagines seeing Old Joe shoot Sara through the heart. Cid sees his mother die, then escapes through the sugar cane fields and onto a passing freight train. In other words, Old Joe will create the embittered child who will become the Rainmaker without his mother's love. But Young Joe also realizes that even by killing Old Joe, the loop will not be closed and Old Joe will keep coming back. So he changes it: he promptly shoots himself with his blunderbuss, closing the loop circuit from his end. Almost instantly, Old Joe disappears.Sara lovingly puts Cid to bed after bandaging up the cut on his face caused by Old Joe's shot. Sara then goes back out to the sugar field and notices that the ground around the overturned truck is strewn with gold bars, which Old Joe looted from Abe's headquarters. She and Cid will now be well provided for. She walks over to Young Joe's body lying in the field, and takes a moment to stroke his hair, something that he had confided to Suzie that his own mother used to do for him.