Thirteen-year-old Becky Hooper is being questioned regarding an event that recently took place at her family's house. She gives vague answers and does not seem to remember much.Two weeks earlier, Becky was a bullied high school student whose mother passed away a year earlier. She has a strained relationship with her father Jeff, who attempts to reconnect with her with a trip to their lakefront home. Meanwhile, prisoner Dominick, a Neo-Nazi, and his men Apex, Cole, and Hammond are riding in a transport van. Dominick has an inmate killed to get the guards to pull over, using the opportunity to kill them and pose as policemen. They stop a man and his two children on the street and take their car, presumably killing them.Jeff's girlfriend Kayla and her young son Ty arrive at the house, upsetting Becky. Jeff announces that he and Kayla are engaged. Hurt, Becky runs out of the house, followed by her beloved dog, Diego. At her small fort in the woods, she retrieves a large key, the bow of which is formed in the shape of a valknut symbol. Dominick and his men show up at the house, take everyone hostage, and demand the key. Kayla and Ty try to escape but are caught by Apex, who tries to help them while Cole kills Dora, one of the family's dogs. Jeff lies about Becky's presence to protect her, but Dominick catches on and shoots Kayla in the leg to get the truth out of them.Becky, still in the woods, becomes aware of the intruders' presence and talks over a walkie-talkie, lying about calling the cops; Dominick calls her bluff and brings Jeff outside to the family's firepit to lure Becky out. He begins to torture Jeff with a hot metal rod. Becky relents and says she will give him the key. Dominick allows Jeff to talk through the talkie, but he tells Becky to run. Jeff breaks free and finds Becky, telling her he loves her before Dominick shoots him dead. Dominick demands the key and Becky gouges out his left eye with it before fleeing with Diego.Dominick goes back into the house to cut off the dangling eye and sends Cole and Hammond out to retrieve the key. Cole finds and chases Becky back to her fort. Cole tries to negotiate with Becky, but she surprises him and stabs him repeatedly with colored pencils and jabs a sharp ruler through his neck, killing him.Apex shows Kayla and Ty compassion and Dominick tries to have Apex reaffirm his loyalty to him. After finding Cole's corpse, Hammond chases Becky down to the lake, where she makes him trip and land on a wooden plank of nails. Hammond falls in the lake and Becky uses a nearby boat motor to shred Hammond's chest. She is found by Apex, who incapacitates Diego. Not wanting to hurt Becky, Apex urges her to flee.Becky makes her presence known to Kayla and Ty; Kayla tries to distract Dominick by asking him about the key's purpose. Becky sets off the car alarm to lure Dominick out as Kayla tries to free herself. Apex fends off Dominick long enough for Becky to use a lawnmower to run over Dominick's head. Becky shoots Apex in the head. Kayla and Ty come out with Diego and sit beside Becky as they wait for the police. In the present, Becky denies murdering the gang, with a cold, predatory look on her face.(Copied from Wikipedia)