Qin Guoli, a Chinese accountant based in Britain, is forcibly hired by Maasym, the leader of the terrorist organization Brothers of Vengeance, to finance his plans. After Qin informs Scotland Yard, Maasym is killed in an operation by U.S. forces, but his son Omar survived and now wants to get his hands on his father's money, the location of which is known to Qin. Omar hires the Arctic Wolves mercenary group, which kidnaps Qin and his new wife Meiwei during Chinese New Year festivities in London's Chinatown. Vanguard, an international security company tasked with protecting Qin, sends agents Zhang Kaixuan, Lei Zhenyu (Yang Yang) and Mi Ya (Miya Muqi) to rescue him. After the successful operation, Qin asks Vanguard's director Tang Huanting (Jackie Chan) to protect his daughter Fareeda (Xu Ruohan (en)), who is currently in Africa, before Omar can use her as leverage against him.Tang, Lei and Miya travel to Africa and find Fareeda, but must also confront the Arctic Wolves and a group of poachers who have been hired as additional backup. During the first altercation, Lei and Fareeda become separated from the rest of the group and hide in the nearby jungle, forcing Tang and Miya to search for them on foot, guided by the satellite tracking provided by Vanguard headquarters. Tang and Miya join their companions and fight off their pursuers in a furious chase across the river with an amphibious car (en) and motomarines, which ends with Tang and Miya being trapped and Lei and Fareeda captured. Broto, the leader of the Artic Wolves, offers to exchange his captives for Qin, who immediately accepts.Tang rallies his agents to storm Omar's fortress in the Middle Eastern city of Jiadebala and rescue the hostages. With local help, Vanguard agents infiltrate the heavily guarded fortress and prepare for the next day's exchange. However, Omar and Broto were expecting an intervention, and the operation quickly degenerates into a gunfight. When Vanguard is surrounded and overwhelmed, Qin surrenders to allow the agents to escape. Tang, Lei, Zhang, Miya and Fareeda then travel to Dubai, where Maasym has deposited his fortune, and cooperate with the local police to monitor two Arctic Wolves mercenaries who have arrived here to facilitate a major arms deal for Omar with Maasym's money. Incidentally, this also gives Omar the opportunity to try to kill Admiral Greg Dawes, the man who killed Maasym and who has just arrived in Dubai.Heavily guarded on both sides, Omar, Broto and Qin meet arms dealer Josef at a used car dealership, where money is converted into cars in pure gold. In exchange for his fee, Josef provides Omar with the control system for a combat drone, which Omar wants to use against Dawes. The Dubai police conduct an operation against the terrorists, but their approach gives Omar's men enough time to activate the drone and escape in the gold cars. Vanguard agents move in to intercept the terrorists, and thanks to the Dubai police's warning, the American forces intercept and destroy the drone. The chase ends in a shopping mall, where Omar and Broto are overpowered and arrested, and the film ends with the protagonists celebrating Chinese New Year in Dubai.