Set immediately after the events of the previous film, Cameron Elam finds a wounded Deputy Frank Hawkins while walking home from a Halloween party. Hawkins regrets withholding serial killer Michael Myers' execution and resolves to kill him himself that night. In a flashback to 1978 (just after the end of the original), Hawkins accidentally shoots and kills his partner in pursuit of Michael before preventing Michael's psychiatrist Dr. Sam Loomis from executing him in front of Michael's childhood home.During present day, on October 31, 2018, Tommy Doyle celebrates the 40th year anniversary of Michael's imprisonment with longtime friends Marion Chambers, Lindsey Wallace, and Cameron's dad, Lonnie Elam. Meanwhile, after their confrontation with Michael, Laurie Strode, her daughter Karen, and her granddaughter Allyson are horrified when a group of firefighters arrive at the burning Strode residence, accidentally freeing Michael from the basement. Using their tools, Michael singlehandedly murders the firefighters before driving back to Haddonfield.Karen and Allyson submit Laurie to emergency surgery while Michael kills an elderly couple in their home. An emergency alert informs Tommy, Marion, Lindsey, and Lonnie of Michael's escape before bar patron Vanessa supposedly encounters Michael in the backseat of her car. Tommy and the others confront Michael as the car drives away and crashes; the driver leaves unnoticed by the crowd. En route to collect Cameron, Tommy forms a mob full of vengeful Haddonfield citizens to hunt down Michael before he can hurt anyone else.Karen and Allyson are informed of Michael's escape, information that Karen decides to withhold from Laurie so that she can recover. After reconciling, Cameron invites Allyson in joining him and his father to hunt down Michael, to which Allyson agrees to avenge her father. Laurie and Hawkins awake and reminisce about their former relationship - Hawkins is implied to be Karen's biological father. Elsewhere, Marion, Lindsey, Vanessa, and her husband Marcus are attacked by Michael while warning Haddonfield citizens to stay inside; all but Lindsey are killed as Tommy, Lonnie, Cameron, and Allyson subsequently find Lindsey alive.While Tommy takes Lindsey to the hospital, Lonnie, Cameron, and Allyson map out Michael's victims and deduce that he's heading to his childhood home. Meanwhile, Tommy reunites with former Haddonfield sheriff Leigh Brackett, whose daughter Annie was killed in the 1978 attack. Tommy organizes a mob of hundreds of Haddonfield citizens, informing Laurie of Michael's survival. Meanwhile, Michael murders the current homeowners of his childhood home as Laurie prepares to kill Michael herself. Believed to be Michael, escaped hospital inmate and the driver of Vanessa's car Lance Tovoli is chased throughout the hospital by Tommy's mob.Although Karen attempts to help, Lance is forced to jump out of the hospital's window to his death, to Karen's dismay. Laurie suffers an injury to her wound and, bedridden, urges Karen to help Tommy hunt down Michael. At Michael's childhood home, Lonnie heads in alone, but Allyson and Cameron follow and find Lonnie's body in the attic as Michael subsequently murders Cameron upstairs; Allyson is thrown down the stairs by Michael and breaks her leg before an arriving Karen stabs Michael with a pitchfork. She removes his mask and taunts him, allowing Allyson to escape.Karen leads Michael to Tommy's mob at a nearby alley; Michael is subsequently swarmed by the mob, seemingly killed when Karen stabs him in the back. As the mob disperses, Michael slits Brackett's throat and kills the mob one by one, ending with Tommy, killing him with his own baseball bat. Returning to Michael's childhood home, Karen stares into the upstairs window, visualizing a story she heard earlier about Michael endlessly staring out of the same window. Michael appears behind her and she is seemingly stabbed to death. Michael stares out of his window, while Laurie stares out of her hospital window.