Theodore "Ted" Crawford (Anthony Hopkins), a wealthy and talented structural engineer, discovers his wife Jennifer (Embeth Davidtz) is having an affair with police detective Rob Nunally (Billy Burke). Crawford proceeds to shoot his wife, seriously wounding her, and immediately confesses the crime to Nunally at the scene. However, at his arraignment, Crawford retracts his confession.He then engages in a battle of wits with rising star deputy district attorney William "Willy" Beachum (Ryan Gosling), who considers this an open-and-shut matter and agrees to go to trial. Beachum is busy making preparations for his transition from criminal law to corporate attorney for Wooton Sims, a well-known firm, and begins a romantic relationship with his future boss, Nikki Gardner (Rosamund Pike).At the trial, Crawford acts as his own attorney, which provides an interesting plot vehicle (Crawford battling a star prosecutor as a supposedly untrained litigant). Crawford reveals that the arresting officer (Nunally) was having an affair with his wife, and was also present during his interrogation. His confession is ruled to be inadmissible as evidence, as it was fruit of the poisonous tree. Beachum discovers that the handgun found at Crawford's home was not used to shoot his wife. It had never been fired and did not match the shell casings at the murder scene. Since the house was under surveillance the entire time from the arrival of the police to Crawford's arrest, the police are baffled.The next hearing is imminent, and Beachum is left with no evidence he can use against Crawford. Nunally, in his intense desire for revenge, offers to plant false evidence through his contact at the evidence room. Beachum, however, being a young and as of yet unspoiled lawyer refuses even to consider it. Nunally still proceeds with the dirty plant. Just before the trial, Beachum plots to confuse Crawford with the help of his secretary, but at the last moment decides against it. With no new evidence to present to the jury, Beachum is forced to concede the trial and Crawford is acquitted. The disgraced Nunally shoots himself outside the courtroom.Beachum's future with the prestigious firm is in tatters. Even though the case is closed, he obsessively continues to search for evidence. He repeatedly visits the comatose Jennifer in the hospital, hoping she will wake up. But at Crawford's request, a restraining order is issued, forbidding Beachum to visit the patient. Realizing that Crawford plans to dispose of the only eyewitness to the crime, Beachum goes to great lengths to get a court order to keep Jennifer on life support. Nikki refuses to help him and they end their relationship. Beachum arrives too late and Crawford orders the hospital staff to take Jennifer off life support, allowing her to die.A mix-up of cellphones leads Beachum to realize that Nunally's and Crawford's guns were the exact same model. He figures out that although Crawford shot his wife with his own gun, when the detective attended the scene (and lingered over Jennifer, trying to revive her), Crawford switched his gun with Nunally's gun. Because Nunally was distracted by the sight of Jennifer, he did not notice the guns being switched. When Crawford appears back in the room brandishing a gun, Nunally tackles and beats him up before the arrest. So Nunally unwittingly holsters Crawford's gun (the murder weapon) and Nunally's (unused) service weapon is the gun taken as evidence.Beachum personally confronts Crawford with this new evidence. Since Jennifer has died, the bullet lodged in her head can now be retrieved and matched with the weapon that Nunally used on himself. Beachum tricks Crawford into confessing again, knowing that Crawford thinks he is protected under the double jeopardy clause. However, Beachum reveals that Crawford can now be prosecuted for murder, having previously been only tried for attempted murder. If he had not pulled Jennifer off life support, he would have been protected by the double jeopardy clause (and as per the doctors, Jennifer could have died anyway). Crawford is arrested by police waiting outside.The film ends with a new trial about to begin. This time, the defendant is surrounded by attorneys.