Super star Kat Valdez is a long known starlet of the Latin Community known mainly for her failed high profiled marriages, when she reaches charting success with her fiancé Bastian, their chart topping hit Marry Me becomes a wedding anthem across the world and they decide to hold their wedding ceremony in front of streaming audience at a concert for their fans. Elsewhere is Charlie Gibbs, a math teacher who is guilted into attending the concert with friend Parker and daughter Lou, who has lately been less enthused with her father.Unfortunately right before Kat is prepared to go to the altar, the tabloids uncover Bastian's infidelity which is broadcasted to her fans at the concert in a moment of distress Kat finds Charlie in the crowd holding Parker's sign of the song Marry Me to which Kat takes as a chance to do something different. She calls to Charlie and agrees to marry him much to the crowd's as well as everyone else's surprise. Charlie unsurely goes to the altar and marries Kat in front of the world. After the ceremony the media is in frenzy trying market Kat as having a manic episode and Bastian attempts to explain and reason with her to no success. Later that night the two are in car awkwardly going through what just happened and exchange a kind departure. Kat goes home in a broken heart.The following day, when discussing how to handle the media attention Kat decides to stay married to Charlie just for a few months to avoid people thinking she is crazy and to place a positive spin on the situation. Charlie reluctantly agrees as he does not want to mess with Kats feelings or his personal life. Charlie poses for media appearances and even begins to grow close to Kat after defending her and getting the chance to spend time with her outside media and management teams. Kat even meets Lou and Charlie's students. Eventually when Bastian attempts to re-enter Kats life, Charlie decides he wants what will make Kat happy but wishes for her not to repeat any mistakes, he eventually ask her to his school dance as a date to which she agrees. That night the kiss and have sex. The following morning the spend the whole day together and actually spend time as husband and wife.As Charlie prepares his math team for a triathlon with Kats helpful encouragement to the students, in particular Lou who has stage fright which can be helped by remembering steps to a dance. Bastian shows up at the math teams practice to announce that Marry Me has been nominated for a Grammy much to Kats happiness as she has never had any nomination in her career, this puts Charlie off as Kat and Bastian will have to perform together again which causes Lou to fear Kat will leave them for Bastian. Charlie also begins to fear Kat is not in their marriage whole heartedly, which causes him to let Kat go. Sad Kat takes the time to write a song which reaches its own success past Marry Me, when having to do press on the Jimmy Fallon Show she refuses a performances and goes to reunite with Charlie who is helping Lou overcome her stage fright with the same dancing Kat taught her. Kat arrives this time holding a sign asking Charlie to marry her again to which Charlie agrees and the two kiss and the three become a happy family with their dog. In the credits we see a series of couples and their marry me stories.