Chapter One: The truth according to Jean de Carrouges. After serving in the Caroline War, Jean de Carrouges and his friend, squire Jacques Le Gris swear fealty to Count Pierre d'Alençon, who has been named Jean's overlord by his cousin, King Charles VI. Jacques later informs Jean that Pierre has ordered his new vassals to pay war levies, agreeing to ask for leniency on Jean's behalf when de Carrouges explains he lacks the funds. To restore his finances, Jean marries Marguerite de Thibouville, receiving a large dowry and the rights to many valuable estates. Pierre, however, has already gifted one piece of land to Jacques. When Jean sues for the land to be given to him, King Charles dismisses the suit. Pierre retaliates by appointing Jacques to the captaincy of a fort that Jean's family had held for generations. A military campaign in Scotland leaves Jean knighted for bravery but bankrupt. When he comes home from a visit to Paris, Marguerite tells him that Jacques raped her while she was home alone. Knowing that Pierre protects Jacques, Jean resolves to challenge him to a duel to the death, a request which Charles VI grants.
Chapter Two: The truth according to Jacques Le Gris. Jacques wins Pierre's trust by using his knowledge of accounting to organize the count's finances, earning him a position at court. Upon meeting Marguerite, Jacques falls in love with her and becomes convinced that she loves him after she shows him kindness. While Jean is away, his mother takes the servants to help her with errands, leaving Marguerite alone. Jacques has his servant knock on the door, claiming his horse has thrown a shoe. She allows the man in, but he is followed quickly by Jacques, who sincerely declares his love for Marguerite. She insists she is married and orders them to leave. Instead, Jacques chases Marguerite up to her bedchamber and has rough sex with her, which he believes to be consensual. Before leaving, he advises her not to tell her husband. Sometime later, Pierre informs Jacques that Jean is accusing him of raping Marguerite. Despite the count's attempt to exert his authority, Jean appeals his case directly to King Charles and requests a duel to the death. Jacques accepts Jean's challenge.
Chapter Three: The truth according to Lady Marguerite de Thibouville. Marguerite and Jean's marriage becomes strained by her failure to become pregnant. After meeting Jacques, Marguerite informs her friends she showed him kindness only to try and win court favor. When Jean leaves for Scotland, he orders her not to leave the castle or let anyone inside. Jean's mother takes all the servants with her on an errand despite Jean's order. Jacques shows up with a servant who tricks Marguerite into letting them enter. Jacques haughtily declares his love for Marguerite; He forces his way into their bedroom where he violently rapes Marguerite. When Marguerite's husband returns, she tells him what happened. Jean's mother later insists Marguerite drop her accusations (and abide any consequences), so her son might be spared court's judgment. At Jacques' trial, a now-pregnant Marguerite remains resolute that she is telling the truth. Charles VI grants Jean's request for a duel to the death. Marguerite confronts Jean for not telling her she would be burned alive if he failed. Marguerite gives birth to her son days before the duel is set to take place. The duel begins with Jean and Jacques jousting until both men lose their mounts and fight hand-to-hand. Jean is stabbed but eventually manages to pin down Jacques. He demands that Jacques confess or face damnation, but Jacques claims his innocence; Jean kills him. Jean basks in the glory of his victory while Marguerite follows quietly behind.
A textual epilogue reveals that Jean died fighting in the Crusades a few years later while Marguerite continued managing his estate and lived in peace for the remaining thirty years of her life, never marrying again.