In Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Amanda Cooper falls ill with cancer. Her husband, Ray, finds out a potentially life saving drug for Amanda was pulled off the market, due to BioPrime CEO Simon Keeley's new business move. Watching Keeley on a live debate with Congresswoman Diana Morgan, Ray calls in and threatens Keeley, saying if he doesn't reverse it, he'll kill him. Keeley doesn't take the threat seriously and Amanda passes soon after, devastating Ray and their daughter, Rachel. Six months later, Ray receives a call from a reporter, Martin Bennett, who tells him he can help him get justice for Amanda. They meet on a subway, unknowingly followed by Rachel and a hitman named Santos. Bennett explains that BioPrime has been bribing anyone who questions their dirty deeds, including the company that made the drug Amanda needed to save her life. Santos kills Bennett and attacks Ray and Rachel. As the train stops at a station, Santos stabs Ray and knocks out Rachel, leaving them both on the platform and getting away on the train.Two years later, Ray has been investigating Keeley on his own. He sneaks into a gala honouring Keeley and interrogates him about the hit on Bennett and the bribes. As Keeley tells him it was Chairman Vinod Shah that signs off on all hits, one of Keeley's bodyguards attacks Ray and Ray accidentally kills him and Keeley. Ray takes Rachel and they hide in a motel outside of town. Rachel, concerned about Ray's quest for revenge contacts FBI Agent Sarah Meeker and tries to convince her to look into BioPrime. The next morning, two mercenaries break into the motel and Ray kills them both, placing further strain between him and Rachel. Ray plans to go after Shah and Rachel convinces him to take her with him. They trap Shah's car and Ray tries to interrogate him, but he's killed by Santos who's been following Shah. The three meet at a diner and Ray gets Santos to tell him his employer's name, Diana Morgan, with the promise they'll meet again in Pittsburg. Upon arriving though, they're spotted by the FBI who chase Ray to the roof of a baseball stadium. As Meeker tries to talk him down, its revealed Ray has actually been Rachel, Ray having died from his wounds two years ago at the station. She jumps into the river, and is still arrested by Meeker, but she crashes the ambulance and escapes.Determined to get justice for her family, Rachel breaks into Morgan's office and faces Santos again, finally killing him. She confronts Morgan and records her admitting she was bribed by BioPrime and ordered the hit on Bennett. Rachel sends the tape to Meeker and boards a plane to an unknown future, knowing her mom and dad are always with her.