But not really. This isn't Christmas Carol, it's a movie about the ability to stay redeemed long term. And doing it everyday, and then doing it again even if you fail occasionally. It's about the consequences of the choices we make and being aware of those before we hit "send". And it's a fun musical. All the haters out there, like movie critics, will wake up tomorrow and still be awful because some people really are unredeemable. I mean it, movie critics on this site really are unredeemable. Merry Christmas?
The movie starts with the Christnas Carol theme. BUT this version is about the spirit of Christmas Present, CP. Christmas Present, CP, wants a challenge, a chance to impact a life where a change will make real differences, big ripples in kindness. The "office" wants him to consider retirement and get a life.
Christmas Present finds his target, in the reprehensible character, played by Ryan Reynolds, Clint Briggs. Clint's firm makes its wealth by creating negative attack adds and running offensive click bait on social media. But Clint's real theme is his belief that people never really change. Christmas Present wants to prove Clint wrong. But not to save Clint. Turns out Christmas Present (spoiler alert) is the original unredeemable Scrooge himself, who, it turns out died just three weeks after being redeemed. Christmas Present is hiding a fear, that he isn't really changed.
While leading Clint thru the spirits, Christmas Present falls for a Clint employee, a truly wonderful women, Kimberly, who hates the she has become helping Clint get rich and climbing the corporate ladder. She hits all time low by doing opposition research on a child to help Clint's niece win class President.The series of events past, present and future unfold for Clint, interrupted by Clint avoidance, and CPs self-awareness. All this filled with song and dance as back stage heaven actors make the flash backs work.
Not unexpectedly people do change. CP decides to try retirement. CP doesn't think he has changed, not really, but he has a friend now in CP. There is great songs, great fun, a nice twist on human doubt and failure and the idea that redemption doesn't happen over night. It's a tear jerker, yes a dieing sister, but lots of human weakness and a slam at HR. Enjoy.