Martha Weiss and Sean Carson are a Boston couple who are on the verge of becoming parents. Sean is a construction worker, while Martha is an executive. The couple meet up at a car dealership where Martha's brother-in-law, Chris, works and Martha's mother, Elizabeth, has bought them a minivan. Sean gifts Martha ultrasound pictures to hang in their nursery. Martha goes into labor that night. Sean calls their midwife, Barbara, but she is unavailable, so she sends a woman named Eva in her place. Martha struggles with nausea, anxiety, and pain during labor.When Martha reaches ten centimeters, the midwife moves her into the bedroom in order to give birth. As Martha pushes, Eva realizes the baby's heart rate is dropping dangerously low during contractions. She informs a panicked Sean that they may need to go to the hospital and moves to call paramedics. Sean relays this information to Martha, who insists that she doesn't want to go, as she is so close. Martha channels all of her strength to push the baby out and gives birth to her daughter. Eva notices the baby is turning blue and attempts to revive her, but she quickly goes into cardiac arrest, and dies.The next month while shopping, Martha encounters a little girl and lactates through her shirt. At a grocery store, she encounters a friend of her mother's, Judith, who hugs her and assures her that Eva will "rot in prison". Sean and Martha attend an appointment with a coroner. Sean is eager to find out what went wrong, while Martha is reluctant. At the coroner's, the couple learns that they have not established the cause of death, though they were able to determine that the baby was in a low-oxygen environment and have started proceedings against Eva. Sean leaves, overcome with emotion, while Martha remains and decides that she wants to donate the baby's body to science.Martha's relationship with Sean continues to struggle as well as with her mother who wants to bury the baby and have a funeral. Two months later she is still deeply depressed. Sean and Martha fight over the baby's room. Sean wants it maintained and Martha does not. Sean attempts to instigate sex but it does not work out and it becomes clear that he is also still deeply depressed.The next month, Sean returns the minivan. He starts to have an affair with Martha's cousin, Suzanne, and use cocaine after being sober for over six years. Suzanne informs him that a potential lawsuit against Eva could be very lucrative. Suzanne is also the attorney prosecuting Eva.Elizabeth blames Martha for the baby's death because she decided to have a home birth and tells her she has to attend Eva's trial. Elizabeth then tells Sean she never liked him. She offers him money to leave and never return. Martha drops Sean off at the airport and he leaves for Seattle.Months later, Martha testifies at Eva's trial. Afterwards, she picks up pictures of her holding her daughter and goes back to the trial. The judge allows her to address the court, in which she states that Eva is not at fault for the death and she does not blame her. Back home, she discovers that apple seeds she started in her refrigerator have started to sprout. A month later Martha scatters her daughter's ashes into the river. Years later, a little girl climbs an apple tree. Martha helps her down and the two go inside.