Kate Dibiasky, an astronomy grad student at Michigan State University, discovers the existence of an unidentified comet. Her professor, Dr. Randall Mindy, calculates that the trajectory of the comet crosses that of the Earth and that an impact will take place in about six months, killing all life in the process. Accompanied by scholar Teddy Oglethorpe, Kate and Randall travel to the White House to present their findings, but are met with apathy from U.S. President Janie Orlean and her staff, including her son, Chief of Staff Jason. The attempt to inform the population through a television program also fails, though Kate's on-camera antics go viral online. When Orlean becomes involved in a sex scandal, she announces the threat of the comet to divert attention. The news is finally spread by the media and the launch of a spaceship that can hit and divert the comet, saving the planet, is announced. However, the operation is canceled mid-flight when Peter Isherwell, a tech billionaire and prominent funder of Orlean, discovers that the comet is composed of trillions of dollars worth of precious minerals that have become scarce on Earth. The White House plans to commercially exploit the comet by crushing it to reduce its size and recovering the fragments. Kate and Teddy immediately abandon the operation in protest, while Randall submissively becomes a prominent voice in advocating for the comet's commercial opportunities, as well as starting an affair with talk show host Brie Evantee. The world becomes ideologically divided between those who demand the total destruction of the comet, those who decry unjustified alarmism, and those who deny that a comet even exists. Meanwhile, Kate returns home to Michigan and begins a relationship with a boy named Yule. After his wife June discovers his infidelity, Randall becomes angered and voices his frustrations on live television, launching into a rant criticizing Orlean's administration for downplaying the impending apocalypse and questions humanity's indifference, before leaving the operation and reconciling with Kate. Orlean and Isherwell's plan to recover the comet's materials fails, leaving them, along with a group of wealthy Americans, to flee in a spaceship designed to find the nearest Earth-like planet. However, they accidentally leave Jason behind in the process. Before leaving, Orlean offers Randall a place on the ship, but he turns her down, choosing to spend his last moments in the company of Kate, his family, Yule, and Teddy. The comet finally hits the planet, killing everyone. In a mid-credits scene set twenty-two thousand years later, the presidential ship lands on a lush alien planet. Its passengers wake up from cryogenic sleep and take a look at the surrounding environment only to immediately be attacked and killed by the planet's wild animals. In a post-credits scene, Jason is shown to have survived the extinction of life on Earth, wondering if his mother is still coming back, and documents the aftermath on his phone.