Set again in the small town of East Great Falls, Michigan, this latest 'American Pie' film features four teenage girlfriends navigating their senior year.Annie is a virgin who is trying to lose her virginity to her boyfriend Jason. She attempts to sneak into her boyfriends house after a late night date only to run into one embarrassing mishap after another. She ends up getting dirty from falling in mud in trying to gain access to the house and has to make a quick retreat when Jason's parents show up with an apple pie to celebrate his acceptance to college and walk into him and Annie about to engage in sex.Stephanie Stifler is a confident lacrosse player (and a member of the notorious Stifler family) who is blackmailing her school's perverted principal into retiring by recording him being chained up and whipped by her.Kayla is insecure about her boyfriend, Tim, cheating on her and constantly goes through his phone after they first have sex and then asking if she is the best girlfriend he has ever had.Michelle West is an over-achieving student and a sex toy expert who prides herself on her education and her accomplishments at the school.During an end-of-summer party on the shores of East Great Fall Lake, Annie, Kayla, Michelle and Stephanie band together to get what they want. They all make a pact to get what they need this year by the start of senior prom which is five weeks away. At the opening day of their senior year, into this close-knit group comes Grant, a handsome new guy in school. He meets Michelle first as she is rushing to class, as she is distracted by the sight of him, she runs into a door and he helps her.Tim breaks up with Kayla and as Grant witnesses this, he offers help in making her ex jealous.Stephanie is playing lacrosse and meets Grant by knocking him to the ground during a play.Michelle takes Annie to a sex shop to buy her first toy, a vibrating set of panties. Annie uses the toy later that day while having phone sex with her boyfriend. Grant and his mother Ellen come over to introduce Ellen to Annie's single father Kevin, who tells Grant to go upstairs and meet his daughter.Michelle and Stephanie end up liking Grant and employ ways to win his affection. Michelle, playing the damsel in distress trips and falls into a locker in front of Grant. He takes her to the nurse and Oliver, the principal's assistant, a nerdy boy who has a crush on Michelle, helps out. Stephanie goes to Grant's friend Emmett (her old childhood friend who she had a falling out with) and asks for his help and offers him $100.A few days later, Annie runs into Grant in the school library and they team up to study and slowly start falling for each other. Kayla and Tim start having sex regularly. Stephanie and Emmett spend more and more time together to help her win over Grant and start falling for each other. Things come to a head at Ellen's house party when the girls realize they all know and have crushes on Grant. Grant says he has a crush on Annie and they kiss. She feels guilty and goes to see Jason who is in college and catches him getting a blow-job from a girl. Initially angry, she feels relief because she realizes she has feelings for Grant.Ellen helps Michelle realize that Oliver is the perfect guy for her as he also has a love of John F. Kennedy and when doing an imitation of his speech she realizes she likes him. They all go to a party thrown by Stephanie in an attempt to get together with Grant. Realizing that Grant likes Annie they call off the pact. A fight breaks out when Stephanie gets called a slut and Emmett defends her, which then causes Stephanie to punch the assailant and throw him out. Emmett and Stephanie kiss, realizing the whole time they had feelings for each other.Kayla and Tim get back together.Michelle and Oliver end up together.Jason shows up and tells Grant about the pact.The girls all go to the pajama prom together and help Annie win back Grant. He shows up and they kiss. Their friends set up a tent on the football field so Annie can finally lose her virginity. They all end up having sex with their respective partners.