In Japan, Shirai Ryu Grandmaster Hanzo Hasashi and his young son Satoshi are ambushed on their way home by several ninjas from the rival Lin Kuei clan. Hanzo kills them all after discovering that the Lin Kuei have slaughtered the rest of the Shirai Ryu, including his wife Harumi. The Lin Kuei's Grandmaster Sub-Zero appears, uses his freezing abilities to restrain Hanzo in ice and then murders Satoshi. He then impales Hanzo through the neck with an icicle, killing him. Deep below in the depths of the Netherrealm, Hanzo is mysteriously resurrected and meets with the sorcerer Quan Chi, who persuades Hanzo to fight for him in the tournament so that he can exact his revenge on Sub-Zero. Hanzo agrees, dubbing himself Scorpion.Meanwhile, the thunder god Raiden and the Shaolin monk Liu Kang make preparations to defend Earthrealm by participating in the Mortal Kombat tournament, hosted by the aging warlock Shang Tsung. The tournament's victor will battle Tsung to decide the fate of Earthrealm. The pair are accompanied by Special Forces agent Sonya Blade and Hollywood actor Johnny Cage, with both having their own reasons for participating: Sonya is in pursuit of Black Dragon crime syndicate leader Kano, and Johnny believes that he is participating in a film project.Upon arrival on Shang Tsung's island, Scorpion attempts to steal Shinnok's amulet on Quan Chi's orders, but is persuaded by Raiden to not follow through on his deal. Meanwhile, Liu, Sonya, and Johnny witness Sonya's partner Jackson "Jax" Briggs being grievously injured by Goro until Raiden intervenes. During the course of the tournament, Johnny barely claims victory over Baraka, Sonya successfully kills Reptile, and Liu successfully wins after Kitana yields. In an attempt to stop the Earthrealm heroes, Kano has his assassins infiltrate the island to kill them, but they are all killed by Scorpion. While attempting to fight Kano, Sub-Zero appears and helps deal with the assassins, but is killed when Scorpion tackles him off a bridge into a spike pit, while Johnny and Sonya pursue Kano in order to rescue Jax.Quan Chi reveals to Scorpion that he was directly responsible for the slaughter of his clan and manipulated the Lin Kuei to do his bidding, and that Sub-Zero was not actually involved in the atrocity. Enraged, Scorpion removes himself from the spike to exact revenge. At the climax of the tournament, Liu almost suffers the same fate as Jax during his match against Goro, but is saved when Scorpion decapitates Goro, while Johnny, Sonya and Jax successfully kill Kano. Shang Tsung attempts to have Scorpion fight Liu Kang, but Scorpion opts to take Shang Tsung hostage and willingly forfeits his status as a fighter, securing Liu's position as the victor of the tournament. After Shang Tsung retreats to Outworld, the island begins to collapse, with the Earthrealm heroes evacuating to a nearby boat, while Scorpion succeeds in killing Quan Chi in combat before joining his clan in the afterlife.In the aftermath, Shang Tsung is tortured by Shao Kahn for his failure before being ordered to make preparations for the invasion of Earthrealm.