Orbiting over the Earth is Jupiter 16, a US space capsule manned by two astronauts. As they maintain radio contact with bases in Hawaii and Houston, one of the astronauts ventures outside to make routine repairs, when radar picks up another spacecraft closing fast. Radio contact is lost and the spacecraft opens up and swallows Jupiter 16, in the process severing the other astronaut's lifeline and leaving him to die in space.In Hong Kong, James Bond is enjoying a romantic encounter with a Chinese woman. She leaves the bed and pushes a button that levers it into the wall. Two men burst into the room with machine guns and spray the bed. When the police arrive, the woman has disappeared and James is found dead.A contentious meeting between US and Russian diplomats follows, brokered by a member of Britain's foreign service. The US believes the unidentified spacecraft is Russian in origin, having tracked the ship in orbit before it ventured into the atmosphere; the US is to launch another capsule in three weeks and will regard interference with the ship as an act of war, and will launch a military attack on Russia should the capsule come under attack itself. Great Britain, however, believes the unidentified ship landed in the Sea of Japan based on information from a tracking station in Singapore, and state that there is a British official in Hong Kong that is following this lead.MI6's best agent, James Bond, is buried at sea from the HMS Tenby, before divers recover his body from the sea floor and "revive" him, revealing that his assassination in Hong Kong was a ruse to trick his enemies into believing he was dead so he can continue his mission undetected. James is sent to Tokyo to investigate. There, at a sumo match, he is approached by a Japanese secret service agent named Aki, who takes him to the home of Dikko Henderson, an MI6 operative living in Japan who has discovered information about the rogue spacecraft. Henderson theorizes that a third power is using Osato Chemicals, a vast multinational corporation, to launch spacecraft from Japan to attack US and Russian spacecraft and trigger war between the two superpowers. However, Henderson is stabbed to death before he can reveal more. James subdues Henderson's killer, then takes his clothing to disguise himself as the assailant and requests the driver of the getaway car drive him to Osato Chemicals, where the driver is subdued. Inside, James battles with a large bodyguard and defeats him before he finds a safe in the office of the company's President, Mr. Osato, containing paperwork and a film negative that he takes before being pursued by security guards.James is rescued by Aki in a Toyota 2000GT, but he is now mistrustful. When Aki stops her car near a subway entrance James chases her, only to fall into a "trap" set by "Tiger" Tanaka, the head of the Japanese secret service and the most secretive official in Tokyo. After verifying Tanaka's credentials via a code-word, James works with him and they examine the paperwork James stole from Osato's safe. It details the smuggling of LOX - technical shorthand for liquid oxygen for rocket fuel and which is also the name for smoked salmon, and the perfect cover. The film negative is of a supertanker, the Ning Po, and contains a microdot message that it was taken by an American tourist who was subsequently killed (by whoever works for Osato Chemicals) as a security precaution; the picture shows not only the ship but a small boat of fishing women, indicating the area is an outer island on the way to Shanghai. James theorizes that the international criminal consortium SPECTRE has a role in the space hijackings given their history of using private organizations for the actual legwork of a conspiracy in the service of other foreign powers.James spends the night at Tanaka's house, where he is given exotic hospitality in the form of being bathed by "very sexy" young ladies and given a relaxing massage by one. James's massage is taken over by the shapely and scantily-dressed Aki, who has fallen in love with him, a love the two consummate in James's bed.The next day James is arranged to meet with Mr. Osato in the guise of businessman Jim Fisher to negotiate a bulk-purchase of important chemicals. Osato surreptitiously X-rays James, finding he is armed, and James is given a drink by Osato's secretary, Helga Brandt, who is more than just an efficient aide-de-camp. Both Osato and Helga are revealed to be SPECTRE agents. Osato orders hit-men to kill James, but he leaves the building. Outside, assassins fire at James before he is rescued by Aki a second time. Osato's hit-men pursue James and Aki until Tanaka dispatches the hit-men's Toyota Crown into the Sea Of Japan via a transport chopper sporting a giant magnet.Tanaka radios James and orders him and Aki to drive to Kobe, where the Ning Po is being loaded for departure. James then urges Tanaka to contact M in London to dispatch "Little Nellie" and her father - an auto-gyro gunship built under the supervision of quartermaster Major Geoffrey Boothroyd, also known as Q. After arriving at Kobe, James and Aki find tanks of liquid oxygen but the two are attacked by a gang of dockworkers. James fights them off to allow Aki to escape, and it appears James himself will get away - until he is ambushed and knocked unconscious.He is bound to a chair in Helga's room on the Ning Po, where she questions him about snooping around the dock and holds a plastic surgeon's instrument dangerously close to James to pry information from him. But she is also aroused by James's masculinity and allows herself to be seduced by him; after consummating their arousal she flies James in a private plane, then bails out and locks him in, but James manages to escape, land the crippled plane, and escape before it explodes.Returning to Tiger's house, James is given photos of the Ning Po showing she stopped at an outer island and offloaded an enormous stockpile of equipment, shown by a vastly lower waterline. James, Tiger and Aki meet Q and Little Nellie, who is assembled by Q's crew of specialists. Sporting a variety of powerful weapons, James flies over the area's islands, and near a volcano he is attacked by four helicopter gunships which he shoots down, leaving no doubt as to the presence of SPECTRE and confirming that the enemy base is close by.A scheduled Russian space shot, meanwhile, goes off, and is grabbed by the enemy rocket, which is tracked by the US Air Force before disappearing, seeming to confirm to the US that the Russians are behind the space hijackings and will now use the excuse of losing their own spacecraft to shoot down the next Jupiter launch. The unidentified spacecraft returns to its extensive base hidden inside the volcano.Both Osato and Helga Brandt meet with their leader in his headquarters after the rogue craft returns to its base. The man's face is not shown however he holds a white cat and finishes a meeting with two scientists who designed the radar jamming system that has cloaked the location of the villain's base. Both men demand more money but acquiesce after his bodyguard, Hans, shows them his leader's pool of piranhas. The two scientists leave and the mysterious villain flashes the x-ray showing James's Walther PPK and expresses his disappointment in both Osato and Brandt for failing to kill him. Both accuse each other of failure. The villain orders Brandt to leave after seemingly giving her one final chance to kill James, but he activates a hidden mechanism and drops her into the piranha pool as she walks across its bridge; she is eaten alive. He then sharply orders Osato to kill James immediately.James is ordered to meet Tiger and Aki at Tiger's palatial estate in Kyoto, which also doubles as a ninja training camp. Tiger also shows James his modern weapons lab and his arsenal of high-tech rocket guns. One item in particular is a tiny rocket hidden in a cigarette. Tiger's plan is to use his army of men to infiltrate a fishing village on the island where the Ning Po last made port. James himself will be disguised as a Japanese man and will train with the rest of Tiger's ninja army; the army will later hide in the island's largest village as local fishermen. James will also take a wife; to his dismay, Aki will not be the woman because she is not from the village. After the procedure which disguises him, James and Aki spend the night together. While they sleep, an assassin sneaks into the rafters above their bed and lowers a needle on the end of a thread. He trickles a powerful poison down the thread towards James, his target, however James and Aki shift in their sleep at the same moment and the poison drips onto Aki's mouth instead. As she struggles and dies, James wakes up and shoots the assassin dead. Tiger comes in and James tells him what happened. James seems more urgent than ever to investigate the plot but Tiger tells him he needs a few more days of training.The next day during a staff match, James is attacked again by another assassin who tries to stab him with a knife hidden in his weapon. James kills the man and Tiger says that the would-be assassin is not one of his own men. The next day, James is wed to a lovely young woman from the fishing village, a student of Tiger's named Kissy Suzuki. They settle into a small house in the village and Kissy rejects James's advances to consummate their marriage. The two also notice a small funeral being held for a young Ama girl who'd been exploring a nearby cave along the shoreline. When the girl's boat floated out of the cave, she was mysteriously dead. At early morning, Tiger warns James that the Americans are launching their next spacecraft that day with a last warning to the Soviets. Bond becomes interested in the cave; the next morning, he and Kissy drift away from the fishing fleet and explore the cave. When they enter it, Bond immediately notices that a poison gas has been released in the cave and they jump over the side of their boat and swim inside. They come ashore and hike up to the volcano's caldera. They see a helicopter fly down into the basin but it disappears. They investigate closer, and by trying to throw a stone into the crater's lake, James reveals that its surface is actually a gigantic metal cover that hides a secret base where the rogue rocket has been hiding after swallowing the USA and Russian spacecraft. James sends Kissy back to find Tiger and his men, while he himself sneaks into the crater when the hatch opens in preparation for another launch of the SPECTRE spacecraft, code-named "Bird One" and carrying Soviet Union livery.Inside the volcano, James locates the missing astronauts and cosmonauts being held prisoner. They subdue a few guards and imprison the astronauts that are next to fly into space and capture the next spacecraft launched by the USA. James takes the place of one of them, in the hopes that can sabotage the next capture, however, as he prepares to enter Bird One, the villain notices him mishandling his equipment and orders him to be stopped at the last moment. James is detained and taken to the volcano's command center as a backup astronaut is called to the launch pad to replace him. There he meets the mysterious villain; Ernst Stavro Blofeld, a bald man with a scarred face and leader of SPECTRE, a vast criminal organization. James's personal effects are confiscated and Blofeld, who kills Osato as the price for his failure to kill James, reveals his plan; the capture of both American and Russian spacecraft will trigger a nuclear war between the two superpowers that would eliminate both of them from the world stage, allowing the Asian power who hired Blofeld, which is not stated but strongly presumed to be the People's Republic of China, to move in and replace them as a new superpower.After Bird One's launch, Tiger's ninja army arrives at the crater, but are detected and fired upon by the sentry guns there. Meanwhile, the SPECTRE spacecraft closes in on the American capsule, leading the US forces to prepare to launch a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union. Seemingly helpless watching his allies' fate, James asks for a cigarette as a last request before his impending death, and produces one of the ones given to him by Tiger. He kills one of Blofeld's men with the miniature rocket inside and opens the main crater hatch, allowing some of Tiger's men to storm the base. James slips away in the subsequent confusion. Blofeld orders the hatch to be closed again, but one of the ninjas who made their way inside sticks a grenade to the crater hatch, blowing it open and allowing the remaining ninjas to infiltrate the base. As a fierce battle erupts, Blofeld orders the shutters of the command center to be closed. James and Tiger's men eventually gain the upper hand in battle.When James sees some people running away from the command center to its right, he deduces that there must be another way into the control room, and asks the ninjas to provide covering fire to allow him to climb a flight of stairs that he discovers lead to Blofeld's private quarters. There, James battles briefly with Hans before the two make their way to the bridge across the piranha pool. After James ducks a punch thrown by Hans, he grabs the henchman and throws him off the bridge into the pool. Bond then returns to the control room and struggles briefly with the self-destruct mechanism for Bird One, but eventually presses the button that destroys the craft. When word reaches the Americans that the enemy spacecraft has blown up, they stand down their weapons. Blofeld escapes and triggers a self-destruct system for the base, a bomb that causes the volcano to erupt. Tiger, James, Kissy and the surviving ninjas swim out to the sea through the cave before the eruption destroys the base.As the Japanese maritime forces pick up Tiger and the ninjas, James and Kissy find a life raft waiting nearby and board it. James asks Kissy if it's OK to take their "honeymoon" now and she agrees. As they kiss, a British submarine surfaces underneath them and the raft is caught on its forward section. Inside the sub, M orders Moneypenny to tell James to report.