Teenager Mark has been stuck in a time loop. After many loop iterations Mark has perfected many timed actions to aid other people. In particular he has a crush on a girl and tries to get to know her by helping them to avoid the eventual pitfalls of the day. One day, Mark witnesses another girl timely intervene in the pitfall he was supposed to intercept. Mark tracks her down and discovers that she is also living in the same time loop. She is Margaret.They spend time together, getting to know each other's ambitions and background. Mark also starts to explore possible ways to break the time loop, but Margaret does not seem to want to escape the loop and every evening she leaves after receiving a text from a medical facility.Mark and Margaret decide to look for moments of perfect beauty during the day; Mark's suggestion that the time loop could be broken after finding all of them. Later, at his house, Margaret sees a map created of the perfect moments. Mark makes an intimate gesture to Margaret, but she only wants to be friends. The next day, his conversation with his father resulted in confrontation over the issue of his right to pursue his ambitions for art school admission. After talking to his sister Emma, Mark realizes his dad didn't quit his job to pursue his dream of being a writer, but was fired and was too ashamed to reveal it.Mark suggests to Margaret to break the loop by flying far away from current location, and Japan was the selected destination. However the plan failed. Realising other people including his own family need help he decided to focus on others. He made amends with his father and attended Emma's soccer games which changed the previous game's results. Mark is later admitted to hospital, following a skateboarding incident. There, he sees Margaret visiting her mother, who is dying of cancer. He realizes that he isn't the center of this story, but rather Margaret is.Margaret manages to find the dog that repeatedly goes missing during the loops. She visits Mark's friend Henry, whom Mark has repeatedly confided in about the time loop. After helping his online game which generated spherical graphics, Margaret has an epiphany. She creates a three-dimensional model of the times and places of the perfect moments. The shadow cast by the model creates an image of a four-dimensional cube, with a single vertex missing. She determines that the final event will occur at 7:00 PM at the pool, where she first first met Mark.Margaret finds Mark and explains that she is responsible for the time loop: this was her mother's last day, and she wants to stay forever. But she now believes that Mark was caught up in the loop, to allow her someone to move on with. The two of them kiss.Margaret visits her mother for a final time at the hospital. At midnight, she and Mark wait for the oncoming rainfall which signaled the loop's disintegration, which also allowed them to return the missing dog home next morning.