65 million years ago on the planet Somaris, pilot Mills convinces his wife Alya that he should take on a two-year space expedition to earn money needed to treat their daughter Nevine's illness. However, on the journey back to Somaris, he crashes into Earth, which is an uncharted planet, during the Cretaceous period. With his ship damaged and split in half, he finds that his passengers have been killed and contemplates suicide until he finds a lone survivor, a young girl named Koa. Mills decides to take care of Koa. However, the two have difficulty communicating due to differing languages and a broken translator. Mills later discovers that the other half of the ship contains a functioning escape shuttle and sends a distress beacon for rescue. Mills tells Koa that they're going to the mountain where the shuttle is located, although he lies about her parents being alive to encourage her to go with him. As they traverse the planet, they bond, while Mills protects Koa from dinosaurs. As they spend the night near a cave opening, Koa watches several video messages sent by Nevine. The two are attacked by a giant theropod, which they mortally wound before hiding in the cave. After a rockfall separates them, the two fend for themselves before reuniting. Mills also discovers that a massive asteroid (more than 6 miles across), whose debris caused their ship to crash, will strike Earth in less than 12 hours, triggering a catastrophic extinction event. The two reach the ship, but Koa is angry when she discovers that Mills lied to her. Mills opens up to Koa about losing Nevine, who had died of her illness while Mills was away and promises to protect her. Upon learning rescue is on the way, the two board the escape shuttle, but the asteroid's debris causes it to fall down the mountain. Mills and Koa manage to fend off two large Tyrannosaurus rex, but the same quadrapedal theropod that they injured earlier starts attacking them before they manage to kill it with a geyser blast. The two quickly return to the ship and blast off towards rescue as the asteroid collides with Earth, wiping out 70% of all life on the planet. As the credits roll, several images of Earth's landscape are shown from the aftermath of the asteroid's impact until modern civilization years later.