Elle Evans (Joey King) has finally completed high school and goes on a road trip for a week with Noah Flynn (Jacob Elordi), Lee Flynn (Joel Courtney), and Rachel (Meganne Young). Now Elle can finally decide what to do with her future. Unluckily enough, Elle got accepted into two schools: Harvard and Berkeley. While Noah got into Harvard and Lee into Berkeley, she has to lie to them saying that she's got wait-listed to not crush their feelings. They have unforgettable adventures such as camping, fishing, watching a shooting star, going to an aquarium, and watching the sunset. Although, Lee and Elle have a rule saying that "they must always go to the same school as their bestie", she decides to think about it later. They leave for San Francisco embarking amazing adventures together.Unfortunately, their road trip comes to an end and Elle got a job as a waiter to get money for college, despite not knowing which one she'll go to. A few days later, Noah and Elle are at the Flynns' summer house and Noah asks an unexpected question about Harvard. He suggested if Elle gets off the wait list, they could go off campus and get an apartment together. Eventually, Lee ends up jumping off a balcony and drenching Noah and Elle with water. Then, Rachel comes and hands them some drinks. Elle is still ignoring both schools to buy some time. Noah and Elle leave and Lee and Rachel talk about their college plans.Later that day, they have lunch with Mr and Mrs. Flynn. Lee mentions that they should go to their beach house but they sadly announce that they're planning to sell it. During this, Elle gets a call from the Berkeley administration. They want Elle's answer if she's would want to apply and she asks for a small extension but they give her until the next day to decide. Now, Elle needs to decide, whether she goes with Noah to Harvard or to Berkeley with Lee.Now, Elle's family is playing UNO and her little Brad (Carson White) wins and dances in triumph. Her father (Stephen Jennings) mentions that he is going on a date with a lady called Linda (Bianca Amato). Elle doesn't seem very thrilled about it and ignores the whole situation.It's the next day and Elle, Lee, Noah, and Rachel head down to the beach house to help the Flynns to sell it. They have a moment to remember what the beach house meant to them, and how much crazy adventures they had. During this, Rachel and Lee are in a room and Rachel accidentally removes the doorknob. Lee remembers when Elle and Lee were smaller, they used to pretend it was a diamond. Then, Lee takes Rachel's hand and puts the doorknob on her finger. They share a moment and join Elle and Noah looking at a photo of them when they were kids.Elle and Lee are asked to start cleaning their playroom and they make two piles of the stuff they want to keep and the stuff they donate. They play with some of the stuff and most of the stuff goes to the things they want to keep. Then, Elle remembers that they had a beach bucket list of all the things they wanted to do before going to college.We meet them and Mr and Mrs. Flynn on the balcony, discussing how it would take 2-3 months to get the house officially sold and Elle and Lee have a plan to persuade them. They ask Mr and Mrs. Flynn if they could stay at the beach house as it would be a real hassle for them to clean, take care of, and put together. The Flynns' parents are convinced and Elle gets a reminder about Berkeley and if she should apply or not. She calls to let them know that she turn the offer down. Then, she talks to Noah and said she going to Harvard. Noah gets excited and Lee immediately understood what had happened. Lee runs away to their playroom to put all the toys away and they have an argument about them going to different schools and how it would affect their friendship. She promises Lee that where ever they are they will stay and remain friends. Then, Elle comes up with this idea that could make their summer the best summer they'll ever have. They're going to complete the bucket list.Elle goes back home and tells her father about staying at the beach house the whole summer. Her father agrees and Elle, Lee, Rachel, and Noah get settled in the beach house. Noah announces that he had invited some people to celebrate the last and best summer at the beach house. A lot of friends join such as the OMG girls (Bianco Bosch, Camilla Wolfson and Zandile Madliwa), Tuppen (Joshua Daniel Eady), and Ashton (Cameron Scott). Ashton had just finished his first year at Berkeley and Lee and Ashton get along very well which makes Elle very worried.It's the next day and Elle wakes Lee up with an air horn. Elle shows Lee the bucket list she had made on her computer and they start away start doing the stuff on the bucket list.Elle is now at work and Lee joins her. Her boss May (Daneel van der Walt) asks Elle if she could do extra shifts and Elle she doesn't feel comfortable with that but still agrees. Elle goes to a table and finds Marco (Taylor Zakhar Perez) with his family.Back at the beach house, Chloe (Maisie Richardson-Sellers) calls Noah mentioning her family going to be in LA and Noah invites her to stay at the beach house.Elle and Noah go out for a walk on the beach at night and Noah tells Elle that Chloe was going to be around and invited her to stay at the beach house. Elle doesn't seem to bother that much and invites him to the water park that Marco had invited Elle to. Noah isn't that happy about it and leaves. The next day, Lee and Elle try to convince Noah to wear a costume for their race day. Noah denies and Lee leaves very frustratedly.Ashton and Lee hang out a lot more than Elle expected. Marco stops by the restaurant where Elle works and says that everything is settled for Elle and Lee's event.Noah and Chloe hang out on her family's boat. They talk for a while and afterwards Chloe's parents argue in the background.Elle eventually finishes work and gets a call from her dad explaining that Brad's babysitter had canceled and Elle had to take care of him. She promised Noah and Chloe that she'll hang out with them, so Elle got a little bit creative. She asks Brad if he'll like to join her at the beach house and agrees. Elle asks if he wanted to eat anything but said that Linda already made him someone food. Linda accidentally bumps into Elle making her clothes wet. Elle isn't very happy about Linda being around and dating her dad, so she leaves in a hurry.Back at the beach house, Elle and Chloe play some games and Chloe mentions she should go pro as she is very good at video games but she denies it. Later on, Lee, Ashton, and Rachel come home and Lee explains that they went to a comic book show and went 80's mini golfing.The next day Elle and her friends go to the water park and they compete in a Mario kart race. Numerous players get out and it's left with Noah and Marco in the lead. Marco wins and Noah isn't too happy about that. Noah and Elle argue about Marco. Later that day, Noah and Chloe play pool and talk about Marco. Chloe gets a message from her parents that they're getting a divorce. She tells Noah and tries not to make it a big deal.Elle and Lee go to their favorite arcade and find a note on the DDR machine saying they would get rid of it.Back at the restaurant, Lee and Elle are talking about how the DDR machine will be gone, so Lee added "The last dance on the DDR machine" to the bucket list. Elle is feeling very frustrated and overwhelmed about the bucket list, Harvard, and their friendship.Elle goes to the beach house and finds Noah who made dinner for Elle to apologize for their last argument. Elle tells him that she is going with Lee for the bucket list but Noah isn't too thrilled about it so she walks away in tears. Later on, Elle, Lee, and all of their friends perform a flash mob in a restaurant. She gets a reminder and walks away from the restaurant and goes to the beach house.The next morning, Noah is painting the doorway frame but Lee steps in and says that he shouldn't. Eventually, Noah walks away.Elle, on the other hand, is picking up Brad from soccer but couldn't find him anywhere. Elle feels worried and goes home to find Brad. Brad is fine and tells Elle that Linda picked him up. Elle feels a little disappointed and angry about it. Back at work, Elle is feeling very frustrated. Chloe and Noah are on the beach talking about Elle. Chloe gets upset that Noah is giving up the same way her parents walk out of their marriage. Then, Elle and Marco have a small talk about her job, at Harvard, and her relationship with Noah and Lee.Elle's about to finish work and someone enters. Then, she realizes it's Noah. They dance together and eventually make up. Then, Marco comes and sees through the window that Elle and Noah make amends. Marco feels disappointed and walks away.The next day, Noah finds Elle's application letter from Berkeley. Elle calls Marco to apologize for last night. She explains what had happened and Marco understands but still feels a little disappointed. Noah tells Chloe about the letter at the Forth of July beach party. Marco shows up and Noah isn't okay with it. Elle and her friends play volleyball and Marco ends up punching Noah in the face because he assumes that he's still into Elle. Noah gives a dirty look at Marco and leaves. Elle is now very upset with Marco and pushes him away from her. Marco confesses his feelings for Elle but Elle rejects him.That night, Elle's family, Rachel, Lee, and Lee's parents play Monopoly but Elle is still upset. Linda picks the dog piece but Elle takes it anyway. She explains that Linda can't replace her mother and walk into her life like that. Her father is very disappointed in Elle and walks away in fury.Elle realizes where Noah could be and meets him at the Hollywood sign. They talk and Noah thinks that it's a good idea that they split up. Elle runs away devastated. And she realizes that she's too late to dance the last dance on the DDR machine. She finds Lee and they argue.The next day, Chloe and Elle talk about Noah and Elle's relationship while Rachel overhears them. Rachel reconsiders her relationship with Lee. Elle and Mrs. Flynn talk about Elle's future and her choices. Rachel and Lee talk about their relationship and Rachel thinks they should break up too because of the distance. They end up in tears and hug each other.At Elle's house, Elle apologizes to her father and Linda and explains to Linda that her mother used to always pick the dog piece. Linda understands and they make amends with each other. Then, she realizes what she's passionate about.Everyone says their last goodbyes to each other. Elle explains how she got into Berkeley to Lee but she didn't want to crush their feelings and she decided to do what was best for her.Elle roams around the beach house for the last time and remembers all the memories. Elle and Lee have their last talk and Lee leaves and takes the diamond doorknob with him.Mrs. Flynn is about to finalize the deal but reconsiders and doesn't sell the beach house.6 years later in LA, Elle and Lee are still in touch, Lee and Rachel got back together and got engaged and they quickly find out that people still do the kissing booth. Then, Noah appears and Elle and Noah reconcile and they stay in touch as well. And in the final shot, they ride their motorcycles together into the sun.