After years of caring for a terminally ill mother who recently died, Ambar Cruz finally pursues a new life as an undocumented immigrant in Ohio. Ambar rents a room in a boarding house run by Red and his mysterious brother Becker. Ambar soon begins having visions of women haunting the house as well as nightmares involving an unseen creature inside an ancient stone box. Over time, Ambar also briefly meets other immigrant women boarding in the home including Freja, Petra, and Maria.While Red is distracted, Ambar investigates the secret study that is off limits to boarders. Ambar finds artifacts, tapes, and files collected in Mexico by Red and Becker's parents, Professor Arthur Welles and his wife Mary. The materials document Mesoamerican rituals that involve human sacrifices and the stone box from Ambar's nightmares.Ambar's coworker Kinsi scams Ambar out of her cash by promising a fake id only to then disappear. Ambar also loses her under-the-table factory job by unintentionally angering her boss.Back at the house, Ambar hears screaming from the shower drain before seeing a brief vision of Freja. Ambar asks about Freja, but Red claims she moved out several days earlier.Paranormal activity that includes pleas for help from invisible entities suddenly plagues Ambar's room. Frightened, Ambar calls unfamiliar family friend Beto, who refuses Ambar's request to provide a place to stay. Out of money and unable to find Red, Ambar simply flees the house.Over the phone, Ambar asks Red to meet her at a diner to return her security deposit. When he arrives however, Red claims he doesn't have the cash with him. Under the pretense of returning her money, Red convinces Ambar to return to the house.Back in her room, Red tells Ambar that his father was a crazy person who collected strange items and killed Red's mother. Red also claims he was going to help Ambar, but his brother Becker needs her. Becker enters the room and performs ritualistic motions including chanting, spreading a substance on Ambar's face, and forcing liquid down her throat. The two brothers confine Ambar to her room with a warning that her treatment will worsen if she tries to leave again.Petra and Maria come to Ambar for help escaping Becker. Petra and Ambar discover they both dream of the stone box, which Petra believes exists in the basement. More visions of dead women haunt Ambar.The brothers come to collect the three women, but are interrupted when Beto comes to the door looking for Ambar. Becker beats Beto to death.Red explains to Ambar that his father forced his mother to help him murder women as part of a ritual he discovered could cure ill health. Arthur then killed Mary. The two brothers killed their father, but Becker became obsessed with believing the box chose him to cure his illness too. Ambar pleads for Red to spare her life, but Red insists he must help his brother.Becker chains Ambar to an altar in the basement and leaves her alone with the stone box. A creature emerges. The creature gives Ambar a vision that she is embracing her dying mother when in reality the monster begins killing Ambar. Sensing something is wrong, Ambar resists. Ambar smothers her mother with a pillow in the vision, which causes the creature to retreat to its box in reality.Ambar goes back upstairs. Ambar recovers a ceremonial weapon from the study and uses it to viciously attack the two brothers. Becker fights back, but Petra steps in to save Ambar. Becker throws Petra down a stairwell to her death. Ambar clubs Becker to death with the weapon.Ambar drags Red to the basement and chains him to the altar. The creature emerges from the box to kill Red. Red becomes another ghost trapped in the house.Ambar stumbles to leave the house, but her wounds suddenly heal. Ominous veins begin pulsing on Ambar's head just like they did on Becker. (thanks to culturecrypt)