Set in 1984, Jack Gladney, is a professor of "Hitler studies" (a field he founded) at the College-on-the-Hill. Despite his specialism, he speaks no German and is secretly taking basic lessons to prepare for a speech he is due to give at a conference. Jack is married to Babette, his fourth wife. Together, they raise a blended family with four children; Heinrich and Steffie from two of Jack's previous marriages, Denise from Babette's previous marriage, and Wilder, a child they conceived together. Denise spies on Babette, finding her secret prescription stash of Dylar, a mysterious drug not in the usual records. Jack experiences a dream of a mysterious man trying to kill him, alluding to an earlier conversation with Babette about their fear of death. Jack's colleague, Murray Siskind, a professor of American culture, wishes to develop a similar niche field, "Elvis studies", and convinces Jack to help him. Both briefly compete with each other as competition between their courses arise.Their life is disrupted, however, when a cataclysmic train accident casts a cloud of chemical waste over the town. This "Airborne Toxic Event" forces a massive evacuation, which leads to a major traffic jam on the highway. Jack drives to a gas station to refill his car, where he is inadvertently exposed to the cloud. The family and numerous others are forced into quarantine at a summer camp. Murray supplies Jack with a small palm-sized pistol, to protect himself against the more dangerous survivalists in the camp. One day, chaos ensues when families desperately try to escape the camp. The Gladneys are almost able to make it out, but end up with their car floating in the river. After nine days, the family is able to leave the camp. However, since Jack was briefly exposed to the chemical waste, his fear of death becomes exacerbated.Later, everything has returned back to normal except for Babette, who has become pale and distant from Jack. Soon afterward, Jack begins having hallucinations of a mysterious man following him around. Denise shares her concerns regarding Dylar and Jack confronts Babette. She admits to having joined a shadowy clinical trial for a drug to treat death anxieties, and that she was accepted in exchange for sex with "Mr. Gray". Intrigued by the idea, Jack asks Denise for the Dylar bottle, but she reveals she threw them away earlier. While digging through the garbage, Jack finds a newspaper ad for Dylar, prompting him to retrieve his pistol and get revenge on Mr. Gray. Jack tracks him down at a motel, where he discovers that Mr. Gray was the man in his hallucinations. Jack shoots him and puts the gun in his hand so as to make it look like suicide. Babette unexpectedly shows up and sees a still-alive Mr. Gray, who manages to shoot them both. Jack drives all three to a hospital run by German atheist nuns, where they heal and reconcile with each other.The movie ends with the Gladneys shopping at an A&P supermarket, where the family participates in a music video-like dance.