Cassie Salazar is a struggling singer-songwriter who works as a waitress/bartender at an Oceanside bar. She occasionally sings covers at the bar, but believes her songwriting is stymied by worrying day-to-day about finding rent money and insulin for her Type 1 diabetes.One night, after singing a wonderful cover of Sweet Caroline, Cassie serves a group of macho Marines who have just finished eight months of training at Camp Pendleton and are soon to be deployed to Iraq. Cassie is a practicing feminist, so she pushes back against the macho bravado of the Marines. One of the Marines, Luke Morrow, makes a sweet-talking play for Cassie, but she coldly kills his ardor.Luke is also in a tough financial situation. He became a drug addict a few years ago after his mother died of cancer, and although he's been clean for two years, he still owes his former drug dealer $15,000, and the dealer is applying heavy pressure for the debt to be repaid. After Cassie's co-worker and bandmate Nora mentions that marrying a Marine will increase his pay by $2,000 a month and provide health insurance to the spouse, Cassie and Luke decide that a sham marriage during his deployment might mutually solve their problems. They agree that a rushed marriage will be suspect, so Cassie assures Luke that despite their fundamentally different values, she will pretend to like him. He goes further and says they will have to pretend to love each other.Initially, the fake marriage thrives during deployment. Cassie is freed up from her rent and insulin concerns, and because she grows fond and appreciative of Luke and his fellow Marines, she is inspired to write a song for the men - Come Back Home. The song takes off, which leads to an invite to the Oceanside Alt-Fest and a wildly successful encore performance at the Oceanside bar. But then Luke steps on an IED in Iraq.Luke returns to San Diego with an injured leg that will require months of therapy. This development complicates things because (1) Cassie and Luke weren't planning to live together, (2) Luke hadn't told his estranged father, a rule-following, retired MP Marine, about his enlistment or his sham marriage. Luke persuades a reluctant Cassie to continue with the ruse for a few months.Again the sham marriage seems to thrive. Luke rehabs like the warrior he is, and Cassie is inspired to create more well-received music - I Hate the Way. But just as she is about to make it big, Luke's drug dealer threatens Cassie's mom and reports the sham marriage to the Marines. Cassie dumps Luke because of her anger at her mom being threatened, but she attends Luke's court martial and sees him assume all responsibility for the crime, which protects Cassie from civilian charges. Luke is sentenced to six months in the brig, to be followed by a bad-conduct discharge.After playing her latest Luke-inspired song - I Didn't Know - in front of a huge crowd at the Hollywood Bowl, Cassie rushes to the gate of Camp Pendleton just before Luke is to be jailed, and tells him that she will be waiting for him when he gets out in six months.Immediately after "The End" and during the credits, the movie shows Cassie welcoming Luke home six months later and hanging out with their dog Peaches at the beach. Happily ever after?