August 15th 1969Camera pans down across Belfast as young children play in the street. Ma (Balfe) calls Buddy (Hill) in for his tea, but as he walks towards his house, hundreds of rioters come into view from the end of the street. Parents grab their children as chaos begins, and Ma manages to get to Buddy through the crowd and scoop him into the house, whilst deflecting bricks and rocks off a trash lid. As the rioters begin destroying the houses of Catholics, Ma calls out for her eldest son, Will (McAskie), who arrives and joins Buddy under the table. Billy Clanton (Morgan) walks down the center of the road, threatening all Catholics and those who would call the police, then sets alight a rag in a car's gas tank. As the car explodes, windows rattle and the boys lay curled under the table in fear.Buddy meanders through the streets as the neighborhood cleans up debris and makes barricades on either side of the road, closing them in. Pa (Dornan) arrives back from his job in England, but is stopped at the barricade by the police, who seem skeptical about where he has come from. Ma goes to help convince the officers, and, finally, Pa is allowed through.Granny (Dench) and Pop (Hinds) arrive to make sure that the family hasn't been hurt. Out the back door, Pop talks to Pa about his recent visit to the doctor and his reluctance to go to the hospital.Ma and Pa prepare to discuss business, as Buddy and Will head off to church. When asked if he will join the vigilante barricade, Pa tells Buddy that there is no "our side" and "their side" when it comes to the neighborhood. At church, the minister talks of the two roads, one of which leads to the Lord's grace and one that leads towards suffering and pain. Buddy looks terrified and, when he arrives home, draws a diverging road.The barricade is now being used as a checkpoint for visiting family members, frustrating some of the longtime residents. Out in the alley, a record player spills sound onto the street where the extended family eats, drinks, and dances. Buddy and Moira (McDonnell), his cousin, discuss which names are Protestant vs. Catholic. Moira insists this will be important to figure out in case someone tries to attack them, but this only confuses Buddy more. Later on, while playing football in the alley, Billy arrives and requests that Buddy go get Pa, then gives him the ultimatum of either paying them or committing to join the Protestant rioters.Pa takes the family to the cinema and, when they get back home, Pa reminds the boys not to deliver any packages or messages for anyone. In the bathroom, Buddy continues staring at his street drawing, struggling to figure out which road he's supposed to take. Ma and Pa argue about the debts they've been paying off in back taxes due to Pa's gambling. They've been sending money for three years, but have nearly worked off the debt, so Pa thinks it's time to move out of Belfast. He presents Ma with brochures for Australia and Canada, but Ma seems reluctant to go anywhere but Belfast.Ma receives her penultimate receipt for back tax payment and places it with the previous ones. Buddy heads to school where their seating arrangements are changed based on their scores from the previous exam. Buddy moves to the third seat, where he gives a dreamy look to the girl in the first seat, Catherine, who gives him a shy look back. Back at home, Buddy talks to Pop about his crush on Catherine and how he hopes to marry her one day.Billy Clanton drags his son through the street to the house of a man who refuses to give money to the rioters and punches him in the jaw. As he walks past Buddy's house, he tells Ma that he expects to hear from Pa soon or he'll be back.Buddy and Will sit at the table doing homework when Ma receives another tax envelope. She is confused, as there is only the normal receipt. Frustrated, she writes out a letter. As Buddy passes by the barricade, Billy begins following him, asking after Pa and insinuating that Will has been making deliveries for him. Buddy meets up with Moira who invites him to join a secret gang, but he'll have to do whatever they tell him to do to get in. Buddy decides to do his math instead. Catherine and Buddy exchange more shy looks at school the following day.Buddy and Pop sit at the dining room table working on math, but Buddy is preoccupied with whether they'll be leaving Belfast. Later, the Vigilantes roam the streets at night looking for trouble while Will and Buddy watch a film on TV. Ma and Pa argue over the telephone about Pa's inability to come home.The following day, Ma receives another tax letter that upsets her even more. Buddy arrives at school and test results place him in the second seat, but Catherine has moved back to the fourth seat. Back at home, Pop asks Buddy about his next chance, which is a project about the moon landing. Pop and Granny try to advise him on the best ways to woo him and end up dreamily dancing around the room together while Buddy beams. After school the following day, Buddy presents Catherine with flowers and they agree to work together on the project. Moira picks him up and tells him the gang has decided his mission is to steal chocolate from Mr. Singh's shop. As soon as Buddy goes to make the grab, they are found out and forced to run. Moira and Buddy escape, but Moira's accomplice friend is caught.Pa arrives back home to confront Ma about the most recent letter. She had been frustrated that they didn't send a final statement clearing them of debt, so she sent them a note requesting a declaration that they were in the clear. Unfortunately, they stretched further into Pa's accounts and found five years worth of additional debt. This escalates into a screaming match where Ma throws crockery at him. Later, Pa tells Pop that his job offered him permanent housing and income if he moves to England to continue working for them. Pop has agreed to go into the hospital for a few days to get his lungs checked out. Buddy asks Pa if they're gonna have to leave Belfast, but Pa doesn't answer.Pa walks Buddy to school, but as he's leaving, he runs into Billy Clanton who asks if he's going to be "with us or against us." Pa responds that Billy is no real Protestant, but rather a jumped up gangster. When Buddy gets back home, the police are at his house and question Ma about the incident at Mr. Singh's. Ma is able to sweet-talk the policemen out of charging Buddy, but, as soon as they leave, she turns and angrily chases him up the stairs. Later in the night, Ma and Pa argue on the phone again.Pa walks through the streets talking to neighbors and finds out another one of the Catholic families has been forced to move out. When he arrives back home, he finds out Will has been making deliveries for the Protestant rioters. Pa appreciates Will telling him and they work together on a piece of wood. Later, Buddy, Will, and Pa sit around the kitchen table working on the Moon Landing project. Pa talks to the boys about potentially moving down to Sydney, but Ma gets angry. In quiet voices, they argue; Ma is terrified of how alone they would be that far away from their home.The family and Moira are in the park playing together and, soon, the whole extended family joins them, playing games and laughing. Aunt Violet talks to Ma about potentially leaving, saying she'd miss them dearly but they've gotta think about what's right for the boys.Granny and Pop reminisce about their early courtship, then discuss Pop's upcoming hospital visit. On the bus out of town, Pa tells Ma about the permanent job and how it could help them out of debt, but Ma is still worried about leaving a place where everyone knows them. Pa says they have until Christmas to decide. The family visits Pop in the hospital and discusses the upcoming holiday and money troubles. Buddy tells Pop about Pa's job, but that he'd want him and Granny to come with them. They hug, then the family goes to A Christmas Carol.Buddy tells Granny that he doesn't want to leave Belfast, just like she didn't want to go with Pop when he became a coal miner. She goes to the cinema to see Chitty Chitty Bang Gang with the family that night.On Christmas, the family opens their meager presents and laughs around the tree. Ma and Pa try to talk Buddy into going to England, but he panics and throws a tantrum. Once he and Will are asleep, Ma and Pa talk about leaving the decision until Easter. Pa is worried about all the young people dying, but thanks Ma for raising the boys.Buddy and Pa talk about horse betting before Pa hops a bus to go see Pa. Moira comes up and tells Buddy that he's been inducted into the gang and this is war. Hundreds of rioters flood the street, it turns out Moira's gang are the rioters. Buddy tries to run but Moira and the group of people push him forward. People are breaking windows and looting, so Buddy picks up a pack of washing powder and runs from the shop. Ma is furious when he returns home and forces Buddy and Moira to go back to the store to return those items. The Army arrives, urging people to clear the streets, Billy tells Ma that they don't return things, then takes her and Buddy hostage with a handgun. Will and Pa appear on the other end of the street asking Billy to let them go. Billy refuses and orates, finally moving to pull out his handgun. Will throws a rock to Pa, who throws it at Billy as Ma shoves his arm to break his aim. Pa is missed with the shot, Billy is hit by the rock, and Ma grabs Buddy and runs to a doorway. Pa and Will join them, followed by Moira, while Billy is dragged away. When they return home, Ma has decided that the following day they will begin packing up to move. Pa and Buddy visit Pop in the hospital and tell him of their decision. Back in school, Buddy and Catherine win the school's moon project.A police officer visits while Buddy is at Uncle Mackie's house and tells them that Pop has died, which Buddy sprints to tell his father. They go to his funeral, which is well-attended, and Granny has trouble getting up the stairs afterward. The wake is also a farewell party for the family and all of the extended family eats, dances, and sings. Pa sings to Ma as she dances, love slightly rekindled.It is the family's last day in Belfast; Buddy goes to say goodbye to Catherine and asks Pa if he thinks they can have a future, even though she's Catholic. Pa responds that as long as she's kind, fair, and respects Buddy, their family is always welcome. The family gets on the bus and Granny tells them not to look back.Onscreen, "For the ones who stayed, for the ones who left, and for all the ones who were lost"