Natalie Bennett (Lili Reinhart) and her best friend Gabe (Danny Ramirez) are studying for finals in their college library. Gabe mentions that his band got a sponsor for their tour and Natalie freaks out and they hook up. All their plans come in two ways. At their graduation party, Natalie locks herself in the bathroom and her best friend Cara (Aisha Dee) brings her some food and three pregnancy tests. The movie is split in two ways. In one way, Natalie isn't pregnant and continues with her life, but the other way she's pregnant. Natalie freaks out and tells Gabe, not knowing what to do bit whatever decision she had he would care for her and she decides to keep the baby. After graduation she goes home with Gabe to Austin to her parents announcing she's pregnant. The other way, she moves to LA with Cara.In Austin, her parents (Andrea Savage and Luke Wilson) are not happy about it, especially Natalie's mom. Gabe suggests that they should get married but Natalie's mom quickly stops it. They eventually agree to move in with them and help them take care of their baby.In LA, Cara and Natalie are settling into their home and Natalie is looking for a job. She eventually signs up for Lucy Galloway's (Nia Long) assistant. The next day, Cara is on her way to work and Natalie says she is going to Galloway's event and gives Cara a card wishing her good luck on her first day.Back in Austin, Natalie and Gabe go to the hospital to check out the baby and find out it's a girl. Then, she calls Cara and Cara mentions that she had found a roommate when she went to LA alone. She becomes miserable and sad and she starts to cry on her couch.At Lucy Galloway's party, she meets Jake (David Corenswet) and they become close friends. She gets a call from where Galloway works and quickly goes there. She surprisingly meets Jake again and he tells her he works there. Eventually, Natalie gets interviewed by Galloway and she is very impressed. Natalie gets a gift to thank Jake.In Austin, Natalie starts getting contractions and Gabe and Natalie rush to the hospital and she gives birth to her baby girl, Rosie. They start taking care of baby Rosie and Natalie feels a little bit miserable due to Cara partying and having fun on her own. The next day, Natalie gets a meltdown and her mother gives her a pep talk about being a mom and how it would never not be one again. They give Natalie a new haircut but she feels more ugly and Gabe comforts her.In LA, Natalie and Jake start hanging out more and they have a date. They talk about work and eventually share a kiss. The next morning, Cara comes home to find Jake. They start dating and are willing to move in with each other.Natalie and Gabe move out of her parents' house and they share a moment. Natalie quickly hesitates because the last time they kissed they said it wouldn't be a big deal but it turned out the opposite. They briefly have an argument about co-parenting Rosie and she suggests that they needs to have space. Natalie meets Cara and they start talking about Gabe and their space. Time goes on and Gabe finds his new lady, Miranda (Amanda Knapic). Natalie isn't too happy about Miranda but Gabe is thankful for her telling him that he should start dating someone else.In LA, Cara is in love with their neighbour Eliza (Sahara Ale) and Jake mentions that he needs to go for 6 months or a year because of work. Long-distance isn't really working out the way they wanted it to.Natalie and Gabe are getting used to co-parenting and Natalie drops off Rosie at his place and decides to go to LA to meet Cara. She gets a call from Rosie saying that he isn't home and Jessie, a girl that Natalie is not familiar with, is in charge. She immediately calls Gabe but isn't answering his phone and she packs in a rush.In LA, Natalie is having a breakdown because Galloway discourages her and calls Jake. Jake isn't really comforting her the way she wanted to be and decided to end things with him.In Austin, Natalie goes to Gabe's house to confront him. They start fighting and Gabe blurts out that he proposed to Miranda while he was gone. Natalie feels upset and disappointed.Both ways Natalie feels a little empty inside. Time flies and both ways Natalie got something big coming up, she got elected for
the South By Southwest Film Festival. She talks about Rosie and Gabe at the festival. Natalie meets Gabe to cheer him on at his performance. Afterwards, he says that Miranda and him ended things. They walk and have a talk about how it all started and have a moment.The Other Natalie meets Gabe after five years after they'd hook up at a bar and figures out that he's married and pregnant. Jake comes back for her and go to watch her animation. Galloway comes by to say hello and asks if she'd want to go back to come to her office and agrees.In the finally scene, both Natalie look at the mirror in the bathroom that she found out that she was pregnant in she'd be okay.