Ex-fighter pilot Ted Striker (Robert Hays) is a traumatized war veteran turned taxi driver. Because of his neurotic fear of flying and his drinking problem - he splashes beverages anywhere but into his mouth - Ted has been unable to hold down a responsible job. His wartime girlfriend, Elaine Dickinson (Julie Hagerty), now a stewardess at Trans American Airlines, breaks off her relationship with him before her rostered flight from Los Angeles to Chicago. In order to regain her love, Ted overcomes his fear of flying, abandons his taxicab and buys a ticket on the same flight. However, once on board, Elaine continues to reject him, causing to drive several other passengers to suicide by accident as he reminisces with sorrow and regret.After the in-flight meal is served, many of the passengers fall sick, and Dr. Rumack (Leslie Nielsen) quickly discovers that the fish served during meal service gave the passengers food poisoning. The stewards discover that the entire flight crew, including Captain Clarence Oveur (Peter Graves) and Roger Murdock (Kareem Abdul-Jabbar), have all come down with food poisoning, leaving no one aboard to fly the airplane. Elaine contacts the Chicago control tower and is instructed by tower supervisor Steve McCroskey (Lloyd Bridges) to activate the airplane's autopilot, a large blow-up dummy named "Otto", which will get them to Chicago but will not be able to land the airplane. Elaine realizes that Striker is their only chance, and he is convinced to fly the airplane, though he still feels his trauma will prevent him from landing the airplane safely.After hearing Striker's name on the radio, McCroskey sends for Striker's former commander, Captain Rex Kramer (Robert Stack) - now serving as a commercial pilot - to help talk him down. As the plane nears Chicago, Striker neglects to check the oil temperature which damages one of the engines while a bad thunderstorm reduces visibility, making the landing even more difficult. Thanks to Kramer's endless stream of advice, Striker is able to overcome his fears and land the plane safely, despite the landing gear shearing off, with only minor injuries to some passengers. Impressed by Striker's display of courage, Elaine embraces and kisses him, rekindling their relationship. The lovers watch as Otto takes control of the evacuated airplane and takes off after inflating a female companion.