In this fact-based movie, Flori calls her son Dito on the telephone to tell him his father is very sick.In 2005 in Los Angeles, Dito is introduced by the unseen host of a program as the author of the book "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints". Dito speaks into a microphone about his book and its significance.In 1986 in Astoria, Queens, a younger Dito says he will leave everyone who appears in this film. This is apparently the first of two instances where a character breaks the fourth wall since he does not appear to be making a film. About a third of the way through the film, other characters introduce themselves.Laurie, Jenny and Diane are the next to appear. Laurie is Dito's girlfriend. She works at the pool selling food, but Dito can't make his father Monty understand that this does not mean she is a swimmer.Dito and his friends appear next, and the comment is made that this is not a violent neighborhood, though the guys do get in a fight.Dito and Antonio, at Dito's apartment, try to convince Monty they are actually doing something with their lives. They both want to be boxers. Monty says he can teach them better than anyone at the gym.Someone calling himself "Reaper" is spray-painting his name on buildings in the neighborhood and Antonio is not happy about it.At Catholic School, a new student named Mike is introduced. He is from Ireland and he reads a poem. Dito later makes friends with him and finds out they both would like to start a band.Nerf drives up in a '75 Chevy and Dito and his friends all want to get in and ride because it is so big there is room for all of them. Nerf doesn't want to let anyone ride with him because he is just learning to drive but they get in anyway.After dark, Nerf is still driving the guys around. Antonio sees a Puerto Rican kid and suspects the kid knows who Reaper is. The others try to get him not to be so mean to the kid, though Antonio says he likes the kid.In the present, Antonio and Nerf also call Dito on the telephone to get him to come home. Eventually he does and Nerf picks him up.Back in the past, Mike and Dito offer to help Frank walk dogs in exchange for part of what he gets paid.Antonio is shown being abused by his father.Mike and Dito smoke pot and make plans to go to California, because there is nothing for them in this neighborhood. Dito tries to get Laurie to go with him too.Reaper and his friends find Dito and think he's the one trying to stop the graffiti and Reaper beats up Dito with a baseball bat. Dito and Antonio go to Dito's place and try to convince his parents he's not really hurt. Laurie shows up too but Dito runs her out.In the present, Dito sees Laurie and her son Joey through the window. She is very happy to see him. Dito visits his parents and his mother is happy to see him but his father thinks he just abandoned them. And he won't go to the hospital.While Antonio, his brother Giuseppe and Nerf are next to railroad tracks, Giuseppe goes down to the tracks to retrieve a ball. Giuseppe doesn't pay attention to the train that is coming and is killed. There is a funeral.In the present, Dito and his mother sit outside Antonio's former house and talk. She mentions how Antonio went to prison.In the past, when Antonio sees a Reaper gang member alone in a store playing a game, he goes in and kills him. Blue and red lights from emergency vehicles are shown. Monty is convinced everything will be all right for Antonio.In the present, Laurie tells Dito he shouldn't have left everyone the way he did.When Monty and Dito get in an argument about Dito's plans to leave, Monty has a seizure.Mike and Dito collect the money Frank owes them. Frank, who is high, thinks they are robbing him but eventually gives them even more than what they are owed. Soon after that Mike is killed in retaliation for the gang member's murder. Dito leaves for California.In the present Dito insists his father go to the hospital and then goes to Ryker's Island to visit Antonio, who is happy to see him.Dito in the studio finishes the program.The movie ends with footage of the real Monty, and the young guys are shown walking down the street during the credits.