Political activist Sofia Flores speaks at a rally in Washington, D.C. about women's and racial equality. That evening, she is killed in a deliberately planned hit-and-run outside of her home.Travis Block, a Vietnam War veteran, works off-the-books for FBI Director Gabriel Robinson as a fixer. After completing one mission, he tells Robinson he wants to retire and spend more time with his daughter and granddaughter, but Robinson is reluctant to let him go. Instead he is given a new assignment to bring in undercover FBI Agent Dusty Crane.However, Crane goes rogue and contacts a journalist, Mira Jones, claiming to have information about Flores' death. Escaping several times from Block and the FBI, Crane arranges to meet Jones at a museum. Block follows Jones to the meeting but Crane escapes again. Crane tells Block that Robinson ordered Flores' killing before he is shot dead by two FBI Agents.Block and Jones meet again and she tells him that Crane claimed to have information about Operation Unity, a top secret FBI program run by Robinson that kills innocent civilians, including Flores. Block confronts Robinson about Operation Unity, but Robinson brushes off his questions and warns Block not to interfere.Jones's editor, Drew, writes a story about Crane's mysterious death using her sources. That evening, he is followed home and killed after a car accident by the same two FBI Agents that killed Crane and Flores. Meanwhile, Block's family goes missing.Jones convinces a distressed Block to help her uncover the mystery of Operation Unity. He tells her that Robinson has a safe in his house with government secrets. He confronts Robinson at his house and forces him to open the safe, which contains a hard drive with information about Operation Unity. Robinson escapes with the help of several FBI Agents, who engage in a gunfight with Block. Block defeats the agents and retrieves the hard drive.Block and Jones review the hard drive and discover that Crane was in love with his assignment, Flores. Robinson had her killed after Crane got too attached to her. Block confronts Robinson with the truth about Operation Unity, and forces him to turn himself in to the authorities. Robinson is arrested for his crimes, Jones completes her story about the government cover-up, and Block retires and reunites with his family who had been placed in Witness Protection but are now brought back home. (thanks to Wikipedia)