Kate Hannah (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) who's an enthusiastic elementary school teacher, arrives at work and vomits in front of her class. Asked by a curious student if she is pregnant, she says yes in the heat of the moment, then continues to lie to the school principal, Mrs. Barnes (Megan Mullally). Her substitute teacher Dave (Nick Offerman) reveals that he saw her drinking in her car and tells her that it's not good for the baby. Kate then tells her the truth that she isn't pregnant, she was actually hungover and she makes him swear not to tell anyone. That following night she attends a party with her husband Charlie (Aaron Paul) and his brother Owen (Kyle Gallner) where Kate drinks heavily. While leaving, she meets a woman who asks Kate for a ride home. On the way, Kate is offered crack and tries it for the first time. The two get high together and pass out in the street.The next morning, Kate wakes up alone, not knowing where she is. She finds her damaged car and drives home, where she finds Charlie sleeping on the table. He wakes up glad that she's okay and they both go to a club to get drunk. There Kate shares what happened the night before and expresses her desire to be a sober person, with which Charlie doesn't seem totally on board with so he goofs around. After that they go out for cycling and then play croquet while drinking tequilas and margaritas. In the night they have sex before Charlie passes out. Kate feels a strong urge to consume alcohol and heads out alone to buy wine. But turns out it's quite late so the cashier can't sell him wine. She looses her cool being turned down by the cashier and urinates on the floor because the bathroom door was locked. The cashier tells her to leave and on her way out, she steals a bottle of wine.Waking up in a remote area, Kate realizes she had passed out again. Afterwards at work, she finds out her co-worker Dave is actually a recovering alcoholic. He then invites her to an Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meeting and assures her that it's a small group of people. There, she befriends Jenny (Octavia Spencer), who has chosen a passion for cooking over alcohol and owns a catering business. Kate decides to choose Jenny as her sponsor and introduces herself to the group. Through the help of Jenny and the support group, Kate progresses gradually but realizes that it's becoming more difficult to live in an environment where everyone's drinking.One particular night, after Dave drives Kate home, he confesses to her that he has a crush on her. Then he bluntly makes an offensive and rather disgusting comment about having the desire to have sex with her, which upsets Kate. In bed, Kate tells Charlie that lately they don't talk like they used to and that she wants to visit her estranged alcoholic mother, Rochelle (Mary Kay Place).Kate and Charlie then go to Lake Arrowhead where her mother lives. Kate mentions the AA meetings but Rochelle is skeptical about how long will she be able to go on. She tells Kate how her father left them after getting sober and now lives in Florida with his new family. After that they watch TV when Kate and her mother bond after a long time. Kate then takes Charlie to Santa's village where she used to come with her mother every Christmas when she was little. There they spend some intimate time together before heading back home.Kate is very much surprised the next day when she is thrown a baby shower by her co-workers. She goes with the act not knowing what to do. Outside, when Dave apologizes to Kate for his earlier comment, she makes sure he understood how disrespectful it was. They reconcile as she explains how he can never say anything like that to a girl. That following night at Owen's birthday, Kate gets mad when she finds out Charlie told Owen about Kate smoking crack, which was supposed to stay secret. Drunken Charlie tries to loosen Kate up, but she rebuffs Charlie's sexual advances and refuses to accompany him to the bar.Next day at school, Kate is questioned by another curious student as to why she is not getting fatter, as she's supposed to gain weight. She subsequently feigns a miscarriage while her students accuse her of killing her unborn baby, for which she reprimands them. Later that night, Kate tells Charlie why she feels she must confess to Mrs. Barnes about her faked pregnancy. Charlie immediately discourages her, warning that she might lose her job. And then one thing leads to other and they begin to fight over financial issues where Kate lashes back that she would never depend on the money of Charlie's parents and that she had to struggle her whole life being poor.Kate decides to tell Mrs. Barnes the truth and gets fired as a result. Being frustrated, she goes to a bar where she relapses and later Jenny and Dave had to drive her home. Drunken Kate starts an altercation with Charlie saying that he never cared enough to support her and that she can't be with him if she wants to get sober.After some time, Kate gives a heartfelt speech at the AA meeting, celebrating her one year of sobriety. She shares how her marriage fell apart, how she lost her job, how she has to live alone now, how she misses his drunken old friends but most importantly how she's grateful for the friends here who actually helped her throughout this journey. Meanwhile Charlie is seen drunk in a bar with Owen and a blonde woman. But Charlie couldn't move on from Kate, so he leaves after a while, saying he's sorry, he better get home. On his way home, he gets in trouble for riding a bicycle while being drunk.The next day, Charlie gives Kate a call telling her about the incident. She comes to visit him and they catch up for a bit. And then they play croquet like old times where Charlie tells her he hadn't met anyone vaguely interesting after they separated and that he misses her. Kate requests him to stop and stick to the game. He says how happy he is for her even though she's better off without him. He then asks her if she would move back in with him, if he begins going to the AA meetings. Kate says he must get sober for the sake of himself, not for her happiness, and she wouldn't be moving back in. He again asks if he could at least take her on a date which she nods no. Finally he asks Kate to play another round with him, to give him a chance to redeem himself. She takes a moment to reply which foreshadows that she might ultimately give him another chance to improve and the film ends before Kate gives her answer.