During the unmasking of a bank robbing clown, Scooby-Doo hears a strange noise and is driven to dance and then run away. Meanwhile Courage appears to be having the same problem, though Muriel and Eustace Bagge don't seem to notice. The gang rushes after Scooby only to find that they have ended up in Nowhere, where a group of hostile cicadas are attacking Courage and Scooby. After killing the cicadas, they are called inside the Bagge household and properly meet Muriel, Eustace, and Courage. Muriel and the gang have a nice chat, and she stumps them with a few riddles. Meanwhile Courage and Scooby try to force a hostile hairball back down the drain. A cicada also clings onto Shaggy's back, but is quickly defeated.After the encounter, Muriel tells Shaggy, Scooby, and Courage to go watch some television. The trio have a talk about their fears. Though Courage doesn't speak while he talks through his fears, Shaggy and Scooby say that they can feel his fear. Eustace then makes it known that he's in the room by complaining about the trio. They then get an invite for dinner at the Mayor of Nowhere's place, pets welcome.Immediately everyone starts to head to the Mayor of Nowhere's house; Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy, and Muriel pile into the Mystery Machine while Scooby-Doo, Courage, and Eustace take Eustace's truck. However, Eustace is replaced by the Queen Cicada. The cicada rams into the back of the Mystery Machine with Eustace's truck, and the gang goes on a high-speed chase to save Scooby and Courage that ends with Eustace's truck destroyed.After reuniting with Eustace, everyone arrives at the Mayor's house. Her Glockenspiel leads them into the parlor where they are attacked by furniture. They escape this encounter when the Mayor greets them, saying it's just an old house. Over dinner, the Gang tries to bring up all the weird happenings in Nowhere with the Mayor, but he is dismissive. The Mayor encourages everyone to check out the museum wing of his mansion, but Eustace, Courage, Shaggy, and Scooby stay behind to eat. After complaining about the food, they all head to the kitchen. Eustace gets frustrated while cooking and heads home. Scooby, Shaggy, and Courage continue to look for more ingredients, but instead run into the mayor who appears to be devoured by the Queen Cicada. A chase scene begins.Meanwhile the rest of the gang gets a quick recap on the history of Nowhere in the museum. Eventually they find a secret passage that leads underground where they see a meteor hooked up to machinery. Velma notes that it's making calls. The people receiving calls seem immediately hypnotized. Shaggy, Scooby, and Courage end their chase by falling onto the machine, breaking it. Without the machinery, gravity begins to act strangely.At the Bagge's, Eustace is making a very Shaggy-esque sandwich when he gets guests at the door. Each one is one of the call recipients and they leave large amounts of money behind. Eustace then sings 'Outta Nowhere', where he brags about his newfound wealth.The Gang along with Courage and Muriel return to the Bagge's house, immediately noticing that the Bagge's farm actually has corn growing on it. The Queen Cicada then shows up and chases everyone through the cornfield. A swarm of cicadas shows up though and abducts everyone except for Scooby, Shaggy, and Courage. Shaggy give a heartfelt speech about how Courage is not the absence of fear but action in the face of fear. He is immediately abducted afterwards. Courage and Scooby decide they should act and go to Computer for help. It is unable to help them until they hook Velma's tablet up to it. Together they tell them to dig straight down for the meteor, as it should be directly below them. They do, though they seem to suffer from the compulsive dancing from the beginning of the film as they dig. It doesn't seem to impede them at all.Scooby-Doo and Courage retrieve the meteor but are chased by a swarm of cicadas to 'The Opposite of Fear is Fun'. They also free their kidnapped friends and family and fight cicadas. It isn't enough though, as it ends with Muriel being kidnapped by the Queen Cicada and causing a cave-in. Courage forces his way out from under the rubble to save her, however when he gets Muriel to safety, the meteor is compromised and turns the Queen Cicada giant. After a pep-talk from Muriel, Courage retrieves the meteor and turns himself giant to fight the Queen Cicada. Courage is soon overpowered and almost killed before Muriel turns him back to his normal size so he can take the meteor and run. The Queen Cicada is eventually trapped by the scraps of a windmill that she destroyed. Courage then uses the meteor to get everyone to safety.Everyone gathers around the trapped Queen Cicada and Velma unmasks her. She is revealed to be the Mayor of Nowhere, but then the Mayor is unmasked and is revealed to be Katz and Le Quack. They wanted to destroy Courage and his family and take the money they had delivered to the farmhouse when they were done. Then, Her Glockenspiel and Frau Glockenspiel come to arrest the two criminals, revealing themselves to be the Lieutenant and the General respectively.With everyone having a dance party with the meteor and villains included, Courage closes the movie by saying "Well goodnight folks, Bye!".