In the year 2029, John Connor (Jason Clarke), leader of the human Resistance against Skynet launches a massive final offensive on Los Angeles. He is notified by his unit, Tech-Com, that Skynet will attack on two fronts in the past and future, thereby changing warfare forever. Connor sets up two attack forces, one to strike at Skynet's main defense grid in Colorado, and a second one, led by John and his trusted lieutenant Kyle Reese (Jai Courtney), to infiltrate a Skynet facility in the ruins of San Francisco, California.Once the defense grid is taken down, John, Kyle, and a number of soldiers enter into the San Francisco facility, and find a time machine...one that John has known about for years. John knows that a T-800 Terminator ((Arnold Schwarzenegger) has been sent back in time to 1984 to kill his mother, Sarah Connor, and Kyle volunteers to go back and save her. However, as the machine prepares to send Kyle back, he is witness to a soldier clamp a hand over John's mouth!It is at this point that Kyle is sent through time, but as he does, he sees a series of fragmented images. He sees a house both new and dilapidated. He is witness to a birthday party, in which he eagerly awaits the launch of an operating system called "Genisys." In a final image, he ses a young boy (Bryant Price), telling his mirror reflection, that "Genisys is Skynet."In 1984, the T-800 arrives at Griffith Park Observatory. As he demands clothing from some punks, his attention is caught by a nearby voice. He is the confronted by an older T-800, and the two begin to fight. The older T-800 is assisted by a Sarah Connor (Emilia Clarke), who uses a heavy-weapon to disable the recently-arrived T-800, and stop the battle.Meanwhile, Reese materializes in a dirty alleyway. After stealing a pair of pants off a homeless man, he is confronted by a police officer (Lee Byung-Hun). When Kyle demands to know the date, the officer confirms that it is 1984, but then surprises Kyle when his arm turns into a metal blade, and he attempts to kill the future soldier!Reese manages to take cover in a department store, and obtains more clothing. However, he soon runs into two officers, who subdue and handcuff him. It is then that the T-1000 materializes out of a nearby mirror, and kills one officer, as the other named O'Brien (Wayne Bastrup) and Kyle take cover. O'Brien gives into Kyle's demand to be uncuffed, just as a large armored truck barrels through the front of the store, knocking the T-1000 aside. In the vehicle, Sarah Connor unloads a few rounds into the still-active T-1000, and demands Reese get into the vehicle!As they drive off, Kyle finds out that the original timeline has been altered: Sarah already knows about Skynet, Judgment Day, and his role as her protector. Furthermore, Kyle learns that the T-800 sent from 2029 has already dispatched by Sarah and the new Terminator, who is now known as "The Guardian" (or as Sarah sometimes calls him, "Pops"). As Kyle is taking in the new revelations, the T-1000 attacks the vehicle. The Guardian and Sarah plan to lure the T-1000 into a trap in an abandoned factory. From there, the T-1000 disables the Guardian and re-activates the fallen T-800. The T-1000 then pursues Sarah while Kyle fends off the T-800. After destroying its flesh, Kyle finally destroys the T-800 by blasting its head off. Moments later, Sarah finds herself in a chamber beneath an acid bath set up as a trap for the T-1000, when she's approached by two Kyles. Unsure which Kyle is the actual Kyle and which one is the T-1000, she takes a lucky guess and shoots one of them in the foot. By sheer luck, it's the T-1000, which morphs back into its cop form. After yelling to the real Kyle to run, Sarah fires at the ceiling, unleashing an acid bath on the T-1000. The terminator is mostly melted, although it takes some assistance from Pops to do so (and not without damaging the flesh on Pops' right arm).Sarah then explains to Kyle that the Guardian was sent to protect her from the T-1000 back in 1973, where the Terminator's arrival had caused a fractured timeline that differs from Kyle's. After saving Sarah, the Guardian began training her to face her destiny. The Guardian has built a crude time machine similar to Skynet's and Sarah plans to use it with Kyle to travel to 1997 to change the events that would lead to Skynet's initial attack on humanity. However, Kyle, convinced that the future has changed because of his new memories, persuades Sarah and the Guardian that they should travel to 2017 instead. He believes that Skynet will begin its attack on that year of the altered timeline; Kyle and Sarah time-travel while Pops spends the next 33 years preparing for their arrival.In 2017, Kyle and Sarah materialize nude in the middle of a busy highway and are apprehended by police. The Guardian watches from a distance and follows them to a hospital. While being treated for injuries, Sarah and Kyle learn about "Genisys", a soon-to-be-unveiled operating system that will be used on every computer system worldwide: they realize that it is Skynet's precursor. She and Kyle are then rescued by John Connor. As he leads the pair to a parking garage, the Guardian appears and shoots John, revealing "John" to be a nanomachine hybrid. John has been converted into a T-3000, and explains that shortly after Kyle was sent back, he was infected by a T-5000, and was subsequently transformed. His mission here is to ensure that Cyberdyne would receive Skynet's technology and secure its rise. The T-3000 John tries to convince Sarah and Kyle to join the machines and end the conflict, but they refuse. After a brief battle, the T-3000 is temporarily incapacitated with an MRI machine.The Guardian takes Kyle and Sarah to a safe house in southern Marin County, where they make final preparations to destroy the Cyberdyne's Genisys mainframe before it comes online. The T-3000 pursues them to the Golden Gate Bridge, where Kyle, Sarah, and the Guardian are all taken into police custody. While awaiting interrogation, the trio is freed by O'Brien, (J. K. Simmons), who discovers that Kyle and Sarah are time-travelers, and the officer that Kyle and Sarah saved from the T-800's attack back in 1984. The three hijack a helicopter on the rooftop and head toward the Cyberdyne's San Francisco headquarters, with the T-3000 in close pursuit. During the airborne chase, the Guardian itself dive-bombs the T-3000's helicopter, causing it to crash.Emerging from the helicopter crash, the T-3000 enters the Cyberdyne complex and advances the countdown mechanism from 13 hours to 15 minutes. As Genisys begins to gain sentience, the Guardian, Kyle and Sarah plant bombs at key points in the facility while holding off the T-3000. After a lengthy battle, the T-3000 reveals its true self before easily defeating the Guardian, only to be attacked by Sarah and Kyle. With not much time left, Sarah and Kyle escape while the Guardian traps the T-3000 in the magnetic field of the prototype time machine, where T-3000 manages to throw the Guardian into a vat of mimetic polyalloy liquid just beneath the magnetic field. Kyle and Sarah manage to reach a bunker beneath the facility moments before the time machine explodes, setting off the bombs and preventing Genisys from coming online. The explosion also kills off the T-3000, destroying it once and for all. The Guardian, now upgraded with mimetic polyalloy components that the T-1000 usually has, appears and helps them find a way out of the debris.Later, the trio travel to young Kyle Reese's home, where they repeat the warning about Genisys to young Kyle, ensuring the events leading to their arrival. Sarah is relieved believing that she is now free to choose what to do with her future. She decides to stay with Kyle.In a post-credits scene, it is revealed that the Genisys system core was located in a hidden subterranean chamber and has survived the explosion.