Suffering from postpartum depression, former preschool teacher Sara Davis and her veterinarian husband Alex move into a countryside farmhouse with their fussy newborn son Liam. Realtor Cindy discloses that forty years earlier, Anna Solomon murdered her baby and her abusive father Robert before killing herself in the same house.Sara becomes fascinated with Anna's story and discovers she looks just like Anna did. Sara begins wearing items that belonged to Anna as she starts having haunting experiences such as seeing frightening visions of Anna and Robert. Sara also starts hearing strange sounds and things repeatedly go missing throughout the house. In the meantime, Alex tries to find out why local farmer Harrington has a litter of sick pigs.Sara and Alex meet their strange next-door neighbor Chris Renner. Over time, Sara learns Renner was Anna's undisclosed brother. Renner confirms that their mother died giving birth to him, which was when Robert began repeatedly raping Anna, who in turn killed her baby because of the incest. Renner reveals that Anna had two other babies, but he refuses to say what happened to them and warns Sara against investigating the childlike voices she hears from hidden parts of the house.Alex forces Sara to see psychiatrist Dr. Carver after he becomes concerned that her worrisome behavior and beliefs about being in a possibly haunted house may be endangering their son. Carver prescribes anti-psychotic medication for Sara, but she refuses to take it because breastfeeding is how she feels close to Liam.Robert Solomon's ghost seemingly attacks Sara while she bathes with Liam. The baby disappears. Upon recovering from her near-drowning, Sara follows Liam's cries to the attic. Sara finds all of the items that went missing collected in front of a previously immovable slab. Two feral boys representing Anna Solomon's other children seemingly emerge holding Liam. Claiming the baby belongs to them because Anna can't properly care for him, one of the boys refuses to return Liam. The other boy then raises a hand ax that he swings down onto Sara.The camera cuts to Sara safely cradling Liam in the now empty attic. Sara excitedly exclaims, "He's mine." Alex returns home and Sara confidently tells him, "It's over." The couple goes on to become a happy family while raising Liam. However, worry covers Sara's face once more when she becomes pregnant for a second time.