Journey to the Centre of the Earth is a science fantasy action-adventure movie.In this movie, the main characters are Trevor Anderson, Sean Anderson, Max Anderson, Hannah, Elizabeth.So, the synopsis of this movie is as follows.Trevor Anderson is a volcanologist and teaches the student in the university also. At the work, Trevor found that his brother's lab is being shut down because of a lack of funding. So, he comes home and sits in a chair to relax and found some messages on the answering machine. When he plays that recording, he found that the messages are from Liz (Max's wife and Sean's mother). He is forgotten that his nephew Sean is coming to spend some days with him. When Liz drops Sean, she leaves Trevor with a box of items that belonged to Max (Trevor's brother and Sean's father) who disappeared years before. Sean takes interest when Trevor says about his father, whom he never really had a chance to meet. Inside the box, Trevor discovers a couple of things. In that, he found the novel Journey to the Centre of the Earth by Jules Verne. Inside the book, he finds notes written by his brother. So, he goes to his laboratory to find out more information on the notes. There he decides that he must go to Iceland to investigate further.
He decides to send Sean back to his mother, but Sean protest it, so he decides to bring Sean with him. They started looking for another volcanologist. When they get to that scientist, they meet his daughter Hannah, who informs them he is dead. She tells them that both her father and Max believed in that book. After some discussion, she offers to help them climb up to the instrument which suddenly started sending data. While hiking the mountain a lightning storm arrives and forces three of them into a cave. Because the lightning storm hit the cave, its entrance got collapses and trapping them inside the cave. So, they do not have any alternative way except to go deeper into the cave, which turns out in an abandoned mine.So, the three of them decide to go deeper into the cave to investigate for Hannah farther and Max into the mine. Suddenly they found a hole in a wall after hitting a trolly on the dead-end of the mine. While investigating the fall into a deep pit, taking them to the "Centre of the Earth". They all continue the travel until they discover a cave that Max lived in. They found some old journal of Max, meanwhile, Hannah discovers Max's dead body. So, they all bury him. At that point, Trevor reads a message from the journal that was written by Max on Sean's 3rd birthday. While reading Max's journal they realize that they must quickly leave, as the temperature is continuously increasing.Trevor figures out that they must find a steam power that can send them to the surface, and it must be done in 48 hours, or all of the water which creates the steam will be gone. Also, must do this before the temperature rises past 135 degrees. They begin by crossing the underground ocean, and suddenly the Trevor and Hannah got separated from Sean. So now Sean's guide is a little bird who has been present since the three of them entered the Centre. After Sean comes closer to the river, he encounters a Tyrannosaurus. Trevor who is searching for him saves by digging a hole in the wall and putting the Tyrannosaurus in a big hole. When they arrive at the river, they found it is dried up and all the water is on the other side of a wall.Trevor uses a flare to fire the magnesium in the wall and take out the water to create a powerful steam pressure to shoot them outside that place. When they throw out from that pit and destroy the home of an Italian man, they found that it was Italy where they have landed. Sean gives him a diamond (which he had found earlier in the caves) for the penalty of the destroyed house. Trevor founds that Sean has many more in his backpack, and they can be used for funding his brother's laboratory. At the end of this movie, Trevor hand over a book titled "Atlantis" on the final day of Sean's visit with him (and Hannah), suggesting they could hang out during Christmas break.