Kai, Lu Xin and Tommy travel to Bangkok to hunt down the killer of Tommy's sister Jenny, having found on her body an ancient talisman that leads them to Thailand. There, biotech billionaire William Pan approaches them, requesting that they bring to him his twin sister, underworld boss Ku An Qi, a jiangshi who has been consuming massive amounts of qi to expand her supernatural powers in order to take over the world. William explains to them that he and Ku are descendants of Pangu, the being who had shaped the universe, whom the first Wu Assassin killed after he went mad with power and whose essence is now contained within two talisman: one in the possession of William and the other Tommy had found on Jenny, which had formerly belonged to Ku. William tells them that Ku had killed Jenny while searching for Kai, the current Wu Assassin, but lost her talisman in a fight with her, and that now he can use both talisman to depower Ku and restore order to the universe. The trio agree to help William.Joined by Tommy's friend Preeya, the group plan to kidnap Ku from a meeting with the city's Triad bosses. However Ku uses mind control to make everyone in the building attack the group, while Kai is ambushed by long-time foe Zan, who is also working for Ku. They escape with the help of Zama, an Interpol agent also after Ku and Lu Xin's former lover. The group eventually make their way to the safety of Preeya's village, where the village shaman tells them that William is actually secretly working with Ku to attempt to reform Pangu so they can remake the world in their image. To do so, they require both talisman and Kai's qi.William and Ku persuade Preeya to steal the talisman from Tommy by offering to bring her dead family back to life, and she uses it to absorb some of Kai's qi. The village is attacked by Ku's men but Kai, Lu Xin, Tommy and Zama escape. The group tracks down William and Ku to an archaeological dig site where the first Wu Assassin fought Pangu. A remorseful Preeya helps Tommy and Zama defeat Ku, while Kai fights and kills Zan. However with Kai's qi William manages to reform Pangu, who takes over his body and pits a mind controlled Lu Xin against Kai. Kai is able to snap him out of it and the two defeat Pangu, trapping a dispossessed William underground.The group celebrates their victory with a day at the beach, but Kai tells them that he has to battle a necromancer next. (thanks to Wikipedia)