He's fat, he's lazy, he's lovable, he's Garfield the Cat, and in his live action film he lives with his owner Jon Arbuckle in a cul-de-sac in the suburbs of Los Angeles. With his buddy Nermal, who is always slow to catch on, always ready to assist Garfield in his schemes around the neighborhood, and his other quick-witted pal Arlene who is there to provide a much-needed touch of morality and common sense, as well as Luca the Doberman Pinscher across the street for him to constantly mess around with and antagonize, Garfield's got it made----and he has no reason at all to leave the cul-de-sac.After waking up one bright and cheery Monday morning and messing around with Jon's morning routine, Garfield joins Nermal outside just in time to witness the local milkman putting out the milk bottles on a neighbor's porch across the street. Garfield eagerly distracts Nermal from the milk with a game of "astronaut", which involves pulling Nermal up in a rope-rigged bucket, which is hooked to a domino series of objects Garfield has strategically places around the back wall of the house to knock over one of the milk bottles the milkman has just placed, causing it to spill and give Garfield a drink, with Nermal being none the wiser. Garfield then enlists Nermal's help in retrieving a cinnamon-apple pie sitting in the windowsill of Luca's yard; Garfield distracts Luca by irritating him while Nermal loads the pie onto a skateboard in the background and carts it away.Back in the house later, Jon sees a mouse----Garfield's friend Louis----and orders him to chase it, to which Garfield declines. After Jon's embarrassing failure to catch Louis himself, Garfield pretends to go chase Louis, only to sternly reprimand him for getting spotted; to repay Garfield, Louis pretends to let Garfield catch and eat him as Jon emerges into the yard, and he congratulates Garfield for his "success" before going back in. Louis then scampers off.Garfield the mouser enjoys some well-earned television back inside, where he catches the Happy Chapman show, run by a man and his black-and-white cat, Persnikitty, who is the face of Kibbly Kat food. Although Persnikitty----really named Sir Roland----enjoys show business well enough, he hates his nickname and despises Happy Chapman who, as luck would have it, is allergic to him. After the show ends, Happy takes his medication, and rants to his assistant Wendell about his jealousy of his more successful younger brother Walter J, who is a news anchor at The Hague.Back at Garfield's home, Jon returns from shopping, and while he chats with someone on the phone, Garfield breaks into the bags ad eats all the lasagna Jon brought home. Jon, worried about Garfield's behavior and wanting to make sure he doesn't get sick, takes him to the local vet, which Garfield observes he's been doing a lot recently; it's also the only time Garfield ever leaves the cul-de-sac.At the vet, it's clear why: Jon is in love with Garfield's regular doctor, Liz, who admires Jon for how much he obviously cares about Garfield. Because he is such a good owner, she has been keeping something aside since his last visit: she has in store a dog named Odie, who has recently been put up for adoption. When Jon attempts to finally get up the nerve to ask Liz out, and he mistakenly believes Liz is leading toward that particular conversation as well, he accidentally ends up making her think he is accepting Odie before she even introduces him to the dog----and when he sees Odie for the first time and realizes what he's done, he feels too embarrassed to back down, and adopts Odie into the family alongside Garfield.Garfield is shocked and furious to see Odie sitting in the car after he comes out from the vet feeling particularly pampered, and the whole ride home, he begs Jon to take Odie back before the dog sees where they live. Nermal joins Garfield and expresses shock at Jon's lack of common sense bringing a dog home when he already has Garfield. Nermal's point of view boosts Garfield's confidence, and he decides he'll figure out a way to deal with Odie on his own terms. However, he becomes irritated once again when he sees Jon showing Odie around the house like a baby being brought home from the hospital.Needing time to himself, Garfield goes out back to repair the bucket setup for the next milk delivery. Who should come out to bother him but Odie, appearing to investigate Garfield's crazy backyard setup. Garfield tries to use Odie to test the fixed bucket, but has trouble convincing Odie to get into it, so he jumps in himself to show Odie what to do. Unaware of the setup, Odie yanks the rope himself much too quickly, sending Garfield flying up onto the roof, from where he falls back into the yard, dizzy and immobile. The bucket falls onto him, covered in milk from the next bottle, and when Odie begins to drink it, Garfield bursts out of the bucket, chasing Odie in the hopes of getting revenge.Odie runs into Luca's yard, and Garfield stops short as Luca approaches threateningly, having finally snapped free of his chain. Before Luca can teach Garfield a lesson, Odie quickly runs up to Luca and distracts him, quickly endearing Luca to his puppy-like behavior and taking Luca's attention off Garfield as the two dogs begins to play and chase each other. Nermal and Arlene rush over to make sure Garfield's okay, and Nermal is impressed with how Odie saved Garfield; but Garfield, unfortunately, still believes Odie a nuisance. These feelings are not helped later that night when Garfield observes Jon allowing Odie onto the bed when he himself is never allowed up there, having his own miniature bed to sleep in instead.The next morning Garfield makes fun of Odie when he sees the dog grab the newspaper and bring it in, but quickly forgets about Odie as The Black Eyed Peas' Hey Mama comes on TV. Odie tries to hop up into Garfield's chair to watch with him, but Garfield, having already made a point to Odie that the chair belongs only to him, kicks him out of it several times in frustration. Odie, changing tactics, joins Garfield in dancing to the music, which begins to make Garfield think Odie might not be totally dim after all; he begins to show some of his dance moves to Odie, and the two hop out to the front porch, still going at it. Garfield becomes embarrassed when Nermal and Arlene see him and Odie acting like friends, but before Garfield can stammer away an explanation, Jon and Liz show up in Liz's truck together, collecting Odie and going back out to attend a local dog show Liz is participating in judging. Garfield frantically jumps onto the truck to join them, thinking they've forgotten him.At the dog show, Garfield roams around bored, keeping out of sight of the dogs until he accidentally walks right out into the main ring, attracting them all and making them chase him away. The judge attempts to use music to distract them, but it doesn't work. With the ring cleared, Odie, hearing the familiar sound of Hey Mama, begins to dance to the song, astounding the judges. Meanwhile, Garfield outsmarts the dogs and escapes to the truck, where he hides until the show is over, keeping his eyes out.At the end, Jon finds that Happy Chapman is a judge as well, and Happy eagerly tries to convince Jon to make Odie a television dog; Jon declines however, thinking Odie would be happier as a pampered pet than a public figure. Happy is dismayed, but keeps his sights on Odie.When the truck finally arrives home, Garfield enters the house first, venting his frustrations out, and furiously kicks his bouncy ball. It smacks into a lamp, which knocks over a decorative set of model cars, and a chain reaction is set off until the entire living room is internally demolished. Garfield peers out of a collapsed shelf to see Jon staring at him in shock, and he finds himself subsequently banished outside for the night while Jon cleans up.After Jon goes to bed, Odie unlocks the door flap and goes out to be with Garfield instead. Garfield, realizing Odie has just given him the way back inside, quickly jumps in and locks the flap again, taunting Odie for now being the one banished, then goes to his bed, convincing himself that what he's done isn't so bad, as puppies need a little tough love sometimes to build character.Nermal and Arlene however have seen the entire exchange, and they watch Odie scratch desperately at the front door, trying to get back inside. Arlene angrily insults Garfield for his selfishness, but before she and Nermal can go talk to Odie, he spies a food delivery bike racing by on the street----and tears after it.Unable to keep up, Odie chases after a car and then a Kibbly Dog van, but ends up exhausted. He rests on a front porch feeling sorry for himself; the door opens and the owner of the house, a nice elderly lady, takes Odie inside.The next morning, Garfield and Jon find Odie missing, and Garfield begins to worry that something may have happened to him, but tries not to think about it. However, he can't escape it; when he tries to talk to his friends, they furiously brush him off for his greediness, and they worry they could be the next ones shunted aside for Garfield's benefit, leaving him to stew in his own shame. He tries to take his mind off things by watching TV, but he finds an unbelievable number of movies and shows featuring dogs.At Telegraph Tower studio, Happy Chapman is being measured for new clothes by his assistant Wendell. He laments about his limited success as a pet food promoter, telling Wendell he ought to find a dog instead of a cat and move up from the food business to something centered around talent. Wendell spies a "lost" poster showing Odie right outside the window in the nick of time.Jon, who has just finished putting them up around town, is back home calling friends to ask if they've seen Odie; he is interrupted by Liz's arrival, and remembers that they have a dinner date. He tries not to think about Odie as he gets ready for the outing, but he ends up confessing to her that Odie has run away, and that he only kept quiet at first because he thought she was only spending time with him because of Odie. She agrees to help Jon look for him, and the two leave the house, with just Garfield remaining, even more annoyed by all the attention focused on Odie lately.Happy and Wendell arrive at the address listed on the poster, and pretend Odie belongs to them; the lady asks Happy for an autograph in return, to which he happily agrees.The next morning, Garfield is watching TV again, and when the Happy Chapman show comes on, he is astounded to see Odie as Happy's new showpiece, and when Happy announces Odie as his replacement for Persnikitty, and that he and Odie will be going to New York that very afternoon to become regular contributors on the Good Day New York show, Garfield tries in vain to show Jon the news. The TV changes before Jon sees what Garfield is pointing at, and he doesn't seem to get it when Garfield tries to explain directly that Happy Chapman has stolen Odie (clearly not helped by the fact that Jon doesn't speak cat).Garfield decides he'll have to take these matters into his own hands/paws, and grabs his usual box of Kibbly Kat food to peek at the drawing of Telegraph Tower on the back. He underestimates the distance, and quickly fuels himself up on food before setting out to find the Tower and rescue Odie. Bolstering his courage, he leaves the cul-de-sac on his own for the first time ever, and heads downtown.Catching a bus, Garfield gets dropped into the middle of the district, surrounded by people in suits with luggage, big scary crosswalks and beeping traffic signals, car horns and alleyways. Completely lost, he wanders into a quieter alley to get away from the crowds. Almost immediately, he finds himself surrounded by a crowd of hungry alley rats, who quickly determine that the food chain has no meaning where Garfield's weight, lack of muscle, and overabundant meat quantity are concerned in combination with their numbers.When it is almost too late to convince them to leave him be, Louis comes running up to rescue Garfield. Garfield quickly explains his situation to Louis, and Louis, knowing the city just as well as the other rats, offers to lead Garfield straight to Telegraph Tower. The lead rat begins to protest, but one of the other rats remembers the nearby Red Lobster, and the mob's attention immediately shifts as they all scatter off, leaving the begrudging leader to warn Garfield against pushing his luck any further, and leave.Louis berates Garfield for wandering the city on his own, seeing as how he was about to be eaten, and due to the potholes, subways, and animal control officers wandering about. He tells Garfield that he'll only be able to help guide him if they both try to stay as hidden as possible to avoid capture and possible death, as Garfield will certainly slow Lous's usual pace down.Garfield finds an empty recycling bin in the alley, and Louis finds an empty Chinese food container, and they both cover themselves with the boxes, setting off down the sidewalk. Garfield snorts that he figured Louis might have had something a bit different in mind.His impatience wears off quickly as they reach the Tower, and Louis, realizing Garfield has to go up several stories to reach Happy's studio, leaves from there, as he has never traveled higher than the ground before. Garfield prowls the edge of the building, looking for a way inside, and when he sees an open air duct under service, he waits until the repairman's back is turned, and dives inside.Using the duct to travel through the building proves exhausting, as there are many slopes and right-angled inclines for him to travel, and when Garfield gets far enough inside, he begins to noticeably obstruct the airflow, causing an error in the security system. The guards, not knowing what has happened, decide to get the "blockage" out by fixing the controls to go at maximum speed, and Garfield shrieks as the air kicks into mega drive and sends him sailing through the ducts, banging and spinning the whole way.Going ten times his normal speed, Garfield soon enters the correct floor and breaks free of the flow, and when he hears Odie's bark through a grating, he jumps into the room where Odie is being held, expressing gleeful relief at finding him. He apologizes to Odie for sending him off into trouble, and tries to break the ice with him by explaining why he felt intruded upon by Odie's presence. He takes too long talking however, and is interrupted by Happy and Wendell as they enter the room. Garfield hides behind some boxes as Happy reaches Odie's cage and takes him out. He demonstrates the use of a shock collar on Odie, which forces him to unnaturally perform tricks he would never be capable of in his normal state. Wendell and Garfield are surprised at the inhumanity of the torturous device. Happy's intimidation wears Wendell down, and he reluctantly agrees to the arrangement. The two men leave the room with Odie in the cage, heading for the lobby, and Garfield fumes about the horrible things Odie is going to be facing soon.He follows Odie to the elevator, but realizes he can't get on with the men without being spotted. He runs across the hall to the stairs and finds them too plentiful; however, spotting a cafeteria tray sitting on a nearby table beside the door, he grabs it and uses it to expertly sled down the banister. He only makes it a few stories before he loses control and goes sliding out into a hallway, crashes into a vacuum cleaner, and goes sailing out an open window----to fall into the back of a lasagna truck, cushioned by boxes of fresh heated lasagna. He quickly gobbles some up to regain his strength, then jumps out of the back of the truck in time to see Happy and Wendell getting into a nearby taxi.Garfield races to catch Odie, but he is stopped by an animal control officer, who slaps a net down over Garfield and comments on his suspiciously stray-like appearance. Garfield is taken into an animal control van and watches from the back window in dismay as the taxi carrying Odie drives the opposite way.Garfield is driven down to the local animal shelter, cleaned of lasagna, and placed into a cage along with over fifty other animals, including Sir Roland, whom he recognizes at once when the cat speaks to him. Sir Roland complains about Happy's treatment of him, and Garfield explains to Roland that he's trying to rescue the very dog that replaced him. Most of the animals are confused that a cat would try to rescue a dog, but Garfield tells them it doesn't matter, because Odie is his friend, and that he's grown on Garfield. Roland seems moved by Garfield's words, but before the conversation can continue, the officers reenter the room, flanked by a man, a woman, and their daughter----a young girl who wants to adopt a pet cat.The cats are all removed from their cages and lined up inside an empty stall. The little girl recognizes Sir Roland and chooses him immediately. However, Roland decides he'd rather get revenge on his previous owner before he accepts a new one, and realizing that Garfield can ruin Happy Chapman's career if he manages to save Odie and leave Happy without a dog for his part in Good Day, New York, he escapes from the child and hits the emergency switch, opening all the cages in the shelter. Everyone escapes into the streets of Los Angeles, and in the chaos, Garfield resumes his trek to Happy Chapman----now for the local train station.Garfield reaches the train station, but immediately becomes confused by all the hustle and bustle, and is unable to find his way toward the train leaving for New York, the Amsterdam Limited. When he finally reaches the tracks, he is dismayed to see Happy sitting on the moving train, already carrying him, Wendell and Odie out of the station. Garfield is momentarily lost in his sorrow at coming so close and then failing, until he sees the front side of another train pulling up, and realizes there is no driver. Immediately he determines that the trains must be controlled by something else, and quickly sneaks back into the station.Jon and Liz, having found the poster leading to the house of the lady who took Odie in for the night, have learned from her that Happy Chapman took Odie, and at this moment they arrive at the station as well. Jon sees on the lobby display that the Amsterdam Limited is leaving, and tries to convince a lady at the service desk to help them stop the train, which she replies is not possible.Garfield finds the room where all the trains are programmed, seeing the controller leaving it behind. He runs into the room before the door closes and jumps up into the man's chair. He thinks of Jon's own model trains and decides that if Jon knows how to make trains work properly, then Garfield himself should have no trouble. The endeavor quickly proves nearly impossible, however, as the many buttons and levers are labeled with formulas and codes that he can't make out. Every single thing he pulls and presses seems to either cause trouble or do nothing at all. After hearing the names of several trains listed in the computer voice that he doesn't care about, he finally hears the Amsterdam Limited announced. He is initially happy and relieved, until he sees the computer show the train onscreen, and Garfield realizes what the voice is saying about the Amsterdam Limited: it, along with nine other trains, is less than thirty seconds away from a multiple double-sided collision, which will result in the likely deaths of the passengers on all the trains, as well as Odie.Garfield frantically begins mashing buttons and levers at double speed in an effort to stop the trains from moving; he then spots a big red button like the one Sir Roland pushed at the animal shelter, and when he presses it, all the trains come to screeching halts just yards away from each other. Garfield then activates the lever that controls the Amsterdam Limited, making the train move backwards and return to the station while the others sit idly, their passengers confused.Jon and Liz hear about the train's approach and run to meet it; Garfield gets there first, finds Odie in the luggage car, and releases him from his cage. He and Odie try to sneak off the train, but Wendell spots them immediately and warns Happy, who frantically jumps off the train and begins to chase after them. Jon and Liz arrive at the train only seconds later to see that Garfield, Odie and Happy are nowhere to be found, and in their place is a confused security officer who was trying to diffuse the situation before Happy's departure. The officer points Jon and Liz in the direction Happy went, and the two set off to intercept him.Garfield and Odie try to take a shortcut through the baggage department at the station, but Happy goes around them and blocks the exit. Garfield complains about being once again stopped by "Unhappy Chappy", to which Happy responds by threatening him with the collar. Garfield and Odie turn to run, but Chapman knocks over a suitcase, setting off a domino effect that drops an oversized trunk in the animals' path. Garfield tries to intimidate Happy, but Happy just laughs at him and tells Garfield that no dumb, dirty animal could ever get the better of him. He then taunts Odie with the collar, enraging Garfield into attacking him, but Chapman slings Garfield away over one of the shelves. Garfield lands on the floor dizzy, but is quickly brought around by Boomer, one of the dogs from the shelter. Sir Roland shows up immediately after, telling Garfield the animals are there to help save Odie and ruin Happy Chapman.Happy begins to put the collar back on Odie, but quickly sees the cats and dogs approaching from both ends of the aisle. He tries to run out of the baggage department, but the vicious animals have spread out everywhere, and even the rats from the alley have joined in the fray. Happy becomes terrified and tries to flee, but they all box him in, and at Garfield's signal, they leap at him and attack. The cats scratch, the dogs bite (but don't chew), and the rats pull the collar off of Odie and instead wrap it around Happy's own neck.When they all finally run away from Happy, laughing and chattering, Garfield and Odie are sitting triumphantly up on the shelf, having been tossed the remote control for the collar by their friends. Happy, realizing he has the collar on, quickly tries to take it off, but Garfield activates it, shocking Happy, and he collapses into a heap. Garfield then smugly tells Happy that he may be just some dumb, dirty animal, but that Odie is his friend, and means more to him than he would ever mean to Happy Chapman. At Garfield's encouragement, Odie presses the button on the remote, and Happy awkwardly performs a flip before falling unconscious.Jon and Liz arrive just in time to find Garfield and Odie sitting on the floor next to the unmoving Happy, and Jon picks them up and hugs them, relieved that they are safe. Happy Chapman wakes up and stands dazedly before Jon, who tells him off for stealing both of his pets, then punches his lights right back out again.Police, responding to the security system's emergency call about the trains going haywire, arrive on the scene. Happy, mistaken for causing the near collision and found to have stolen the animals, is arrested, and the news crew catches him being stuffed into the police car while Garfield and Odie are carried out of the station. Nermal and Arlene see this unfold on the TV in their own house, and they realize that Garfield must have saved Odie. As Jon and Liz drive back to Jon's house with the two in tow, Garfield and Odie are greeted happily by their friends again, and even Luca seems to think Garfield did well. While they all talk together, Jon thanks Liz for her help and tells her she's a great friend, to which she responds she would rather be more than his friend, and kisses him. Garfield comments sarcastically in the background that it was about time.The four go inside of Jon's house and the movie ends with them all watching a black-and-white romance on TV, with Jon and Liz cuddled up on the couch, and Garfield happily sharing his chair with Odie.