1 Her Destiny Is Damon Bradley.
One night, two young siblings Faith and Larry Corvatch are playing spirit of the glass, Ouija. The glass moved on its own while the siblings were holding it. It goes by each letter and it forms by the name 'Damon Bradley'. Faith was stunned and thought that name would be her destined life partner. The following night, Faith and her best friend Kate were having fun at the theme park as Larry threw a balloon with water on them while he was riding in a big wheel (ferris wheel).
2 Fortune Teller.
Faith went inside the fortune teller booth to see her future, but just for fun. The fortune teller looked into her crystal ball and there she saw the name Damon Bradley. Faith was shocked when the fortune teller uttered that name. The fortune teller warned her not to wait but to follow her destiny.
3 14 Years Later.
14 years later, Faith is now a teacher of religion and she is engaged to be married to her long time boyfriend.
4 Her Best Friend Kate Marries Her Brother.
Her brother Larry married her best friend Kate.
5 A Phone Call From Damon Bradley.
One day, while she was trying on her wedding dress, the phone rang. She answered it. The caller was her fiancé's high school classmate, and he told her that he wasn't able to attend to their wedding. Faith asked his name, and the caller said that his name is Damon Bradley. Faith was suddenly shocked and can't believe what she heard. She asked him where is he going, and he said that he is now in the airport to go to Italy. Faith blurted out that she loves Italy, and then Damon said that he needs to go then he hung up the phone. Faith was startled when Damon hung up. She immediately decided to go to the airport just to see him. Kate tried to stop her, and called her crazy for what she is doing. But Faith was unstoppable, she hurried went down and called a taxi cab even though she was still wearing the wedding dress. When she got to the airport, the plane bound to Italy via New York was about to take off.
She tried to asked the personnel to allow her into the plane just to see her love, but they didn't allow her because she doesn't have a boarding pass. Faith felt so lonely and frustrated, then she called Kate that she is willing to go to Italy just to see the man of her dream. Kate told her it wasn't a good idea, but Faith said that she just want to see him so she will not regret it for the rest of her life. Kate finally agreed with Faith as she also wanted to stay away from Larry for a while. She thought that he didn't love her any more. When they got in Venice they were strangers in the city and could not even speak Italian.
6 The Hotel Where Damon Bradley Checked In.
They went in the hotel where Damon Bradley checked in. Faith felt nervous as she asked the hotel clerk about Damon Bradley. The clerk said that Damon was already left. Faith was stunned and upset for what she heard. Kate suggested that Faith go to Damon's room, maybe they could find something to track him. They went there secretly, and when they entered the room, they hurriedly checked the trash bin, and there they found a memo about Damon's next hotel.
7 Trying To Drive To Rome.
Faith got hope and they went there immediately but ran out of fuel. Some nuns stop and fill their tank.
8 Rome.
An Italian man named Giovanni welcomes them. Faith asked him about Damon, and he said that Damon has a reservation in Italian café at dinner. Faith was delighted and felt so excited. When Giovanni saw Kate, he gave her a sweet smile that make Kate swooned.
9 Pensione.
Giovanni leads them to a local pensione, suitable accommodation.
10 That Night, at The Cafe.
That night, in Italian café, Faith wore a red gown and a red pair of shoes, she is very excited and nervous at the same time to meet Damon Bradley. Faith asked Kate to take a look for Damon as she is so nervous. Kate happily said that Damon was there in the corner, she rolled her eyes and from the distance, there she saw a man sitting at the table, she saw his arm wearing a black suit.
11 Trying To Catch Him.
Faith felt so happy and she thought that she will finally meet him. Faith excitedly as her heart was pounding when she walks in the café to reach Damon, but on her way, due to nervousness, she bumped the waiter bearing a tray of food and it fell in the floor. Faith said sorry and she continued walking, and as she about to reach Damon's table, Faith was startled when she saw the table was empty, Damon was gone. Faith look around and she saw Damon walking away down the street. She tried to catch up with him. She bumped with someone, but she ignored him and she kept on walking to catch Damon, until her shoe was stuck in the ground, she let it go just to follow Damon.
12 The Shoe Is Returned.
The man she bumped into saw her shoe and he picked it up and followed her. Faith lost track of Damon, she was devastated, and she sat down on a bench. Kate noticed that her other shoe was gone, Faith said that she left it somewhere. And then suddenly, the man that Faith bumped into came bearing her red shoe. He offered to put the shoe on Faith's foot. They looked at each other and the man's eyes was sparkled when he saw her. Faith just thanked him coldly. Her mind was set on Damon.
13 And The Shoe Man Is ... .
Kate told her to find another way to track down Damon and they went to a nearby store to buy a tourist map. The shoe man asked them if they need help, but Faith told him that he cannot help her. The man insisted then Kate said that Faith was looking for the man of her dream. Then the man asked what is his name. But Faith refused to tell him, the man insisted her again just to say the name until Faith finally said 'Damon Bradley', then the man suddenly blurted out that he is Damon Bradley. When Faith heard it, she suddenly fainted and the man caught her.
14 In Love With Damon Bradley.
When Faith back her consciousness, she was so delighted when she saw Damon Bradley. She was so impressed by him for being kind and being so handsome. They get acquainted that night, and she fell in love with him instantly.
15 Damon Is Really Peter Wright.
They went in his hotel room and had kissed. When Faith was about to give everything to him he blurted out that he was not Damon Bradley, while continuing to kiss her. He said that his name was Peter Wright. When Faith heard it, her eyes opened wide and she push him away and she was upset, she scolded him. Peter tried to explain, he said that he fell in love with her the moment he saw her, but Faith didn't accept that as an excuse and she left him immediately.
In her hotel room, Kate comforted her and said that she don't need to trust anyone, because man has ways. Faith decided to go back to New York to pursue her wedding. Next day, Kate has a date with Giovanni while Faith was calling the agency to re schedule her flight back to America.
16 More About Peter.
The Kate's husband, the roof repair man, does not know what is what.
Peter talked to Kate and he told her that he had no bad intentions with Faith. He also said that he was from Boston and he was not supposed to be in Italy, but that there is a reason why he is in Italy, his boss got a measles at the age of forty. That's why he went there to replace him.
He also said that, that night, he was walking in the street without reason, until Faith bumped into him. And there he fell in love with her the moment he saw her. Kate just looked at him and felt sorry for him.
17 Giovanni And Kate At Lunch.
Giovanni came in and Kate introduces them to each other, then Kate went with Giovanni for lunch.
18 Married Kate Has Another Date With Giovanni
Peter at a shoe fashion show. Faith and Kate are set to go back home to New York the next morning, but first Kate has another date with Giovanni, a tour of the fountains. Faith loves or hates Peter?
19 Peter Tries To Persuade Faith
Peter tries to persuade Faith. In the morning the taxi arrives. Peter caught them and tried to stop them but Faith wants to leave. Peter goes along with that, but when the taxi arrives he runs up and says that he knows where Damon Bradley is. Faith then asked to stop the cab. Peter told her that they need to go to the place where Damon Bradley was in. Faith finally felt nice about Peter.
20 Positano.
La Sirenuse Hotel in Positano. That day, they went there with Giovanni and Peter to see Damon.
21 He Is At The Pool.
As they arrived at the hotel, Faith immediately asked the hotel clerk to know if Damon Bradley had checked in in that hotel. The clerk said that he was in the pool right now.
22 Faith Invites Him To Have A Dinner With Her.
Faith was excited to get to the pool area. Peter, Giovanni and Kate accompanied her, and they saw a chubby man lying on the pool side. They thought that it was Damon. Peter told Faith sarcastically to approach him. Faith said that she will. She approached him, but all of a sudden she heard someone called the name 'Damon'. And when she look around, she saw a handsome man dipping in the swimming pool, and she heard a girl called him Damon. Faith was stunned when she saw him, she approached him and introduces herself. The guy smiled at her so sweetly. She invites him to have a dinner with her.
Meantime, Kate's husband discovers that she is in Italy.
23 Heading To A Double Date, With No Peter.
Faith was excitedly preparing in her hotel room, did you see his eyes, isn't he nice, and then Peter arrives and gives her a gift of shoes.
24 Peter Spies On Faith.
Faith meets Damon. Peter accidentally spies on Faith.
25 Cruise Ship Party, A Setup.
Faith and Damon go to the cruise ship party. While the two were having fun, Peter felt lonely and jealous. He keep his eyes on them. Then suddenly, Damon went aggressive and he was touching her inappropriately, Faith felt uncomfortable and disgusted. When Peter attacked Damon and had fight, then Damon blurted out that actually he is not Damon Bradley. He took off his wig to show that he was bald. Faith was stunned when she found out that Peter had set her up. Her anger with Peter became more intense. She leaves the place with Kate.
26 Not Believing In The Stars Or The Moon.
Faith and Kate, this is Kate's best weekend ever.
Peter left behind with false Damon and Giovanni. They drink together instead. Peter is frustrated and tries to accept the fact that Faith is not his destiny.
27 The Truth About Damon Bradley.
Faith was heartbroken and decides to call off her wedding. Next day, when Faith and Kate are about to go to the airport, Kate sees her husband Larry. Larry said that he loves her. Kate hugged him and they decided to stay a few more days in Italy. So Faith will going home alone. Larry asked Kate what she doing in Italy with his sister, then Kate said the reason. Larry said that he set the whole thing up about Damon Bradley, he even paid the fortune teller 2 dollars to give that fortune.
28 Mr Damon Bradley To The Information Desk.
When Faith was in the airport, she was queuing in a line bound for New York while Peter was queuing bound for Boston. As the two of them waited they heard someone paging for Damon Bradley. They both hurriedly went to the information desk and the two met behind the real Damon Bradley, who was talking to the clerk.
When Damon turned around, Peter told Damon that he is the guy that Faith was looking for her entire life, and he is very lucky man because he has the right name. Damon was baffled by Peter's remark. Then Peter turned his gaze on Faith and wished her luck and he turned away. Faith felt frustrated, and then Damon asked her what is going on. Damon told her that he can see that he loves her. Faith realized that her destiny was with Peter. Damon told her that he has a plane to catch and he went away, and then Faith looked around and she needed to catch up with Peter.
edit number x+2