The movie opens with Los Angeles Police Department officers engaged in a violent shootout with four masked bank robbers who have held up a bank in Lincoln Heights.Two of the robbers are in the bank holding hostages, while the other two are engaging the cops with AK-47 automatic riffles and full body armors. Being only armed with pistols, the police are hopelessly outmatched. With all other weaponry failing, the officers on scene call for the Special Weapons And Tactics (SWAT) unit. The SWAT unit arrives - some via helicopter, and others with a SWAT truck. From the helicopter, hotshot SWAT officers Jim Street (Colin Farrell) and Brian Gamble (Jeremy Renner) rappel down with two other men onto the roof of the bank and tunnel their way down to the storeroom next to the main lobby. A couple of SWAT snipers are deployed to the roof of a building across the street, and a third team approaches from the ground.While Street and Gamble are entering the bank, one of the two gunmen outside tries to flee in a getaway car but is promptly taken out by a sniper with a single round to the head. The other gunman continues to engage the police but is taken out by the ground unit. As the two remaining robbers inside are starting to panic, the ground unit sends a secure phone and a SWAT negotiator attempts to negotiate the release of hostages.As the negotiator deals with the robbers, SWAT Lieutenant Greg Velasquez (Reg B. Cathey) calls for his team inside the bank to hold and stay where they are. Gamble ignores the order and drops into the storeroom anyway while Street is forced to follow him. Gamble then sneaks into the back of the main lobby and gets in position to shoot down the robbers, all the while ignoring several calls from his Lieutenant.One of the hostage takers, getting more and more nervous, collars a woman, puts a pistol to her head and prepares to execute her. With seconds to make a decision, Gamble shoots the robber down through the woman's shoulder, wounding her in the process but effectively killing the robber. The last gunman is then taken out by Street and the standoff is over. Street attends to the woman and calls for an ambulance. Gamble asks him if she will be okay, to which Street impatiently replies he is not a doctor, implying he is mad at Gamble.Back at their precinct, Captain Thomas Fuller (Larry Poindexter) is furious at Street and Gamble for their reckless actions in the bank, especially since the hostage they wounded is now suing the LAPD for negligence. Fuller orders them off the SWAT division but Lt. Velasquez intervenes and asks that, while off the team, they remain in the division so they can eventually get a chance to get their jobs back. Fuller agrees and relegates them to "cage duty", a degrading position involving the maintenance and distribution of weapons and accessories to other officers. Gamble is insulted and tells Fuller off making it worse for himself. He then storms off in anger. When Street hesitates, Fuller has a private conversation with him where he offers him a chance to get back on the team right away if Street agrees to rat out Gamble for recklessness.While Gamble is packing his bag, having decided to quit, he and Street get into an argument when Street reveals he agrees with Fuller that Gamble was reckless out there and refuses to follow his partner in quitting. Gamble assumes Street ratted him out and shoves his now former partner's head into a mirror before leaving.Six months later, Street is unreasonably exercising out on the beach one morning before work. He is still in the gun cage, performing menial tasks for other police officers and still waiting for a chance to get back on the field. One day, veteran Sgt. Daniel "Hondo" Harrelson (Samuel L. Jackson) comes to the precinct and asks Street to fix his customized M-4 rifle. Street notes the custom job and is impressed.Hondo meets with Velasquez. In the wake of a number of scathing articles criticizing the LAPD, the chief of police wants to reform the department. Velasquez wants Hondo to form a new SWAT unit for him to command. Velasquez offers Hondo two of his own officers- T.J. McCabe (Josh Charles) and Michael Boxer (Brian Van Holt). Hondo accepts them and decides to pick out three more candidates from the personnel files. Only problem is, Captain Fuller will have the final say on who goes into this new unit.Street works diligently on Hondo's weapon and then goes home that day to find his girlfriend trying to move out of their apartment before he comes back. She claims things between them are not good anymore and Street hasn't been the same since he was taken off the SWAT team. She tries to kiss him one last time but he denies her and lets her leave without arguing.During his time in the cage, Street has invented a new piece of equipment that he plans to patent to law enforcement elsewhere: a gigantic hook and chain designed to take down walls or barricades and end hostile standoffs, which he calls the "Key to the City". As he's explaining his invention to his gun cage partner Gus (James DuMont), Hondo comes in and appreciates Street's idea. He came in to collect his weapon and is impressed by Street's work on it, noting several improvements.Later on, Hondo takes some of the officers out for target practice on the firing range. The showy T.J manages to out-shoot Hondo, but Hondo bets $200 that Street, who's testing weapons on his own, can beat McCabe. T.J, not feeling threatened by a "gun bunny", agrees to the challenge. They face off, and Street ends up victorious to everyone's surprise except Hondo.Meanwhile, a French mobster, Alex Montel (Oliver Martinez) arrives at Los Angeles International Airport and heads out into the city. He intends to visit his uncle's favorite restaurant, purportedly as a birthday surprise, but in reality, it's because he knows his uncle has been stealing money from the family for some time. Alex thus slits his uncle's throat and leaves the restaurant, but is soon pulled over by motorcycle cops for a broken taillight. Since the car Alex is driving belongs to his uncle and there is an arrest warrant out for him, the officers detain Alex for questioning and verification of his identity. Even attempts to use bribery aren't able to spring him out.Hondo recruits Street as his driver for the day in order to go on a SWAT team recruitment run. While in the car, Hondo reveals he was a marine and a combat trainer before while Street was a Navy Seal, although he refuses to divulge what was his specialty.They first investigate an officer named Deacon "Deke" Kay (LL Cool J), who is found in the middle of a foot pursuit with a suspect. Hondo and Street intervene and end the pursuit, angering Deke who wanted to do it alone. But he soon soften up when Hondo reveals he's from SWAT and offers Deke to study at "SWAT school."They then visit another candidate who makes a bad first impression on Hondo by being a vegetarian and being too polite and too much of a stickler to last long in Hondo's unit. They then move on to a Metro police officer named Chris Sanchez, who has apparently applied and qualified several times for SWAT but keeps getting turned down. Street notes that Sanchez has several misconduct grievances from suspects filed with Internal Affairs. They locate officer Sanchez at a local ER. They find Sanchez's partner keeping watch over a Latino thug who's in a wheelchair with multiple bruises on his face. Hondo asks if Sanchez did this on his own which his partner confirms that he did. Hondo then meets with Sanchez and finds out that "Chris" is actually short for "Christina" (Michelle Rodriguez). Hondo realizes that Fuller has likely kept Sanchez off the SWAT roster because she's a woman and simply has used the misconduct complaints as an excuse to do so. Sanchez tells Hondo that most of the charges against her have been filed because resisting violent male perps couldn't deal with the fact that they were manhandled by a woman. Hondo likes her right away and decides to offer her a position on his team.Upon returning to headquarters, Street asks Hondo if he's planning on toying with him for another day or he's actually gonna tell him why he took him on this recruitment run. Hondo asks Street if he wants to fill the last spot on the team. Street is hesitant, knowing that Fuller is very unlikely to approve him given the incident with Gamble. Street also confirms that he did not roll over on Gamble. Hondo confirms he wants Street on his team.When Hondo meets with Fuller, Fuller rejects both Sanchez and Street, but Hondo refuses to back down. Fuller makes a compromise- he will accept the group as is for now, but should they fail the preliminary trials needed for SWAT, then Sanchez goes back to her Subway routine and Street and Hondo will both be taken off the force. Hondo agrees, confident his new team is up for the challenge.Training begins shortly thereafter. The new squad members get to know each other, and it's revealed that Street's girlfriend who dumped him earlier was actually Boxer's sister who assumes Street did her wrong, so there is some friction between them. Hondo puts the group through several tests- including infiltration, armor, weapons, physical conditioning and long-range shooting. Despite some initial difficulties, they are soon performing admirably. The team also shows exceptional marksmanship skill in a sniper session involving playing cards used as targets.Before long, the time has come for the team's final evaluation: a simulated hostage situation set up by Fuller. The team will have to infiltrate an airplane taken over by "terrorists" played by fellow officers armed with paintball guns. They will have to take back control of the aircraft and take out all six hijackers within eight minutes. While looking over the plane's schematics, Street notes that there is an alternative entry point to the plane that no one will expect: a tiny elevator shaft meant for food trays which no man could fit in but their team actually have what no other team have: Sanchez, who jumps at the chance to break Fuller's heart. They sneak onto the plane and take out all six hijackers, although T.J takes a hit that would've been fatal had it been real. Despite this, the new team sets a new course record, much to Fuller's annoyance.That night, the group celebrates by eating at a cafe owned by Deke's father. Hondo congratulates them, but also admits that he is not too happy that T. J. probably wouldn't have survived if they had been in a real situation. After a few hours of eating and drinking, most of the group heads home save for Sanchez and Street who wants to keep the party going a little longer. Sanchez follows Street to his favorite bar and shares a few more drinks with him but they are interrupted by Street's ex-partner Gamble who happens to be at the bar that night. The two have a passive aggressive exchange until Gamble decides to leave. Street tries to make a pass at Sanchez who turns him down but then invites him to her daughter's birthday party taking place the next day.Since the next day is Sunday and their training is over, the new SWAT team are all enjoying a well earned day off. T.J. is on a date, Hondo and Velasquez go out golfing, Deke is spending the day with his kids, Boxer is at home with his wife watching TV (Ironically watching the 1970's program that inspired this movie), and Street took Sanchez up on her offer and is now entertaining the kids at Eliza's birthday party, stalking them playfully with a Super-Soaker water rifle. Suddenly, everyone is recalled by pager to a "Polish hostage" situation, where a man has barricaded himself in his house and is randomly firing a shotgun out the window. The man also claims to have wired all the entrances with explosives which no one believes but Velasquez refuses to take that chance. Street volunteers his "key to the city" which they use to tear down the back wall of the house and neutralize the suspect, ending the standoff in seconds.At the sheriff's department, a deputy finds some details pertaining to Alex Montel's true identity. Velasquez is notified and asks Hondo's unit to intercept and escort the prison bus carrying Montel. But Montel's gang has also learned about the transfer. Two of Alex's men disguise themselves as police officers and use a stolen police car to pull the bus over. They then climb onto the bus and shoot the deputies, before unshackling Alex. As they're about to drive off, Hondo's team arrives and engages them in a shootout. The shootout is quick, but at the end, both fake cops are killed and Alex is captured.Montel, as it turns out, is an international fugitive wanted in over a dozen countries on charges including murder, arms dealing & drug trafficking. As he is being led to a holding cell, he faces a TV camera and offers $100 million as a reward for anyone who can break him out of jail. The newscast of every channel repeat the claim over and over and confirm that Montel has the financial means to backup his claim, attracting the attention of every outlaws in Los Angeles. Hondo's team is flustered by Montel's offer, knowing it will make their job that much more difficult when anyone on the street will engage them to rescue Montel for the money.Hondo's unit is preparing to evacuate Montel via helicopter when the chopper is shot down by an unseen sniper. They take Montel back inside and form a new plan- to lead the fugitive away via a motorcade. Gang members hoping to cash in on Montel's offer attack the vehicles, killing a motorcycle cop and injuring two other officers in the process. But the vehicles turn out to be a decoy, and Alex is being led down a private access area underground into some unmarked SUV's parked several blocks away from the headquarters while Velasquez is keeping watch from the sky.Hondo's plan runs smoothly up until halfway through the second checkpoint where T.J. stops the car and points his gun at his own team, having decided to take Montel up on his offer. As Street and Boxer attempts to reason with him, T.J is suddenly joined by Gamble who shoots Boxer down and reveals himself as the mastermind behind the operation to break out Montel. They take Montel and flee into the Metro. As paramedics arrive to treat Boxer, Hondo and Street chase Gamble's group into the subway station while Deke and Sachez hurry to the next station. Hondo and Street miss the train while further down the line, Deke and Sanchez report that the train never made it to the next station. Both teams head down their respective end of the tunnel to investigate. They soon find the train abandoned midway through the tunnel with Gamble and his men all gone. The driver points them to a storm drain opening further down the track which the team enter, getting cut off from their police frequency at this point.Meanwhile, Fuller finds out about T.J's betrayal and Gamble's involvement and suspects the whole team might be part of the operation to free Montel. Especially when they're no longer responding. He finds out an unauthorized runway has been lit up at Hawthorne airport and suspects that's where Gamble is heading so he sends all available units at the airport to intercept them.Hondo and his team track down Gamble and his men through dark underground sewer tunnels but Gamble slows them down by setting up a booby trap involving a claymore mine and smoke grenades. Street saves Deke from triggering the trap and reveals part of his Navy Seal training when he disarms the claymore. Further down, their chase completely stops when they find themselves locked in the tunnel by a heavy gate locked with a massive padlock. Street retrieves the claymore and uses it to blow the gate open.Back online, Hondo explains what happened to Fuller and asks him to send vehicles to pick them up. Fuller doesn't trust Hondo anymore so he orders him and his team down and refuses to go pick them up. Hondo ignores the order and his team commandeer a passing limo. As they drive out, Sanchez notices a low-flying jet over the city. Knowing all units are at the airport, they deduce that the jet must be Gamble's plan for evacuating Montel and the airport was just a decoy. Hondo & his group follow the jet, which is actually landing on the 6th Street bridge, rather than at the airport. Hondo gets radio confirmation that Gamble has hostages on board the airplane, and they need to stop the aircraft immediately to save innocent lives.Hondo drives their limo to the bridge, crashing through the roadblock at one end and racing towards the plane. Hondo drives the limo into the landing gear of the plane before it takes off, crippling it. A gun battle erupts between SWAT and Gamble's men. Sanchez gets hit in the shootout, which turns out to be a minor shoulder wound. Montel makes a break for it, but Deke chases him on foot and re-captures Montel.Hondo confronts an injured T.J. inside the plane. T.J. expresses remorse and asks about Boxer. Hondo is hesitant, but confirms that Boxer is expected to recover from his injuries. T.J. pulls out his gun and shoots himself in the head, preferring death over a prison sentence.Street rappels down from the bridge into a train yard to chase after Gamble. After Gamble stabs Street's hand through and through, they both drop their weapons and decide to have an all out fist fight surrounded by moving trains. In the end, Street kicks Gamble's head into the path of an oncoming train which crushes it, killing him instantly. He rejoins his team on the bridge telling Hondo they will need another body bag.Fuller arrives, commending the team for their excellent work, but pointing out that the job is not yet finished. Montel is still in their custody and need to be transferred to a federal prison a.s.a.p. The team decide to make things simple and take a SWAT truck out to deliver Montel to the proper authorities.As they sit on the truck, heading back home after successfully delivering Montel, a report of a robbery in progress comes onto the police band. Hondo points out that their shift has technically been over for 12 hours but the weary team agrees to mount up anyway and head out to their next mission.