In 1984, an Amish community outside Lancaster, Pennsylvania attends the funeral of Jacob Lapp, who leaves behind his young wife Rachel and eight-year-old son Samuel. Rachel and Samuel travel by train to visit Rachel's sister, which takes them into Philadelphia. While waiting for a connecting train, Samuel goes into the men's room and witnesses the brutal murder of an undercover police officer, but manages to evade detection by hiding in the stalls.Detective John Book is assigned to the case where he and partner Sergeant Elton Carter question Samuel. Although Samuel is unable to identify the perpetrator from mugshots or a line-up, he later sees a newspaper clipping in a trophy case of narcotics officer James McFee receiving an award and points him out to Book. Book investigates and finds out that McFee was previously responsible for a seizure of expensive chemicals used to make black-market amphetamines, but the evidence has now disappeared. Book surmises that McFee sold the chemicals to drug dealers, and that the murdered detective had been investigating the theft.Book expresses his suspicions to Chief of Police Paul Schaeffer, who advises Book to keep the case secret so they can work out how to proceed. Book is later ambushed and shot in a parking garage by McFee and left badly wounded. Since only Schaeffer knew of Book's suspicions, he realises Schaeffer is also corrupt and tipped off McFee.Knowing Samuel and Rachel are now in grave danger, Book orders his partner to remove all traces of the Lapps from his files and he drives the boy and his mother back to their community, but his loss of blood causes him to pass out in front of their farm. Book insists that going to a hospital would allow the corrupt police officers to find him and put Samuel in danger. Rachel's father-in-law Eli reluctantly agrees to shelter him despite his distrust of the outsider.Book slowly recovers in their care and begins to develop feelings for Rachel, who likewise is drawn to him. The Lapps' neighbour Daniel Hochleitner had hoped to court her and this becomes a cause of friction. During his convalescence, Book dresses in Jacob Lapp's clothing in order to avoid drawing attention to himself. His relationship with the Amish community deepens as they learn he is skilled at carpentry and seems like a decent, hard-working man. After accepting an invitation to a barn raising for a newly married couple, Book gains Hochleitner's respect.Book goes into town with Eli to use a payphone, where he learns that Carter has been killed. He deduces that Schaeffer and McFee murdered Carter after discovering his role in the case to get closer to Book, with the aid of a third corrupt officer, Detective Sergeant Leon Ferguson. While in town, Hochleitner is harassed by tourists. Book retaliates, breaking with the Amish tradition of non-violence. The fight between the bullies and the strange "Amish" man is reported to the local police and they inform Schaeffer, who had previously contacted the sheriff in his efforts to locate Book, Rachel and Samuel.The next day, Schaeffer, McFee and Ferguson arrive at the Lapp farm, taking Rachel and Eli hostage as a way of luring Book and Samuel out. Book orders Samuel to run to Hochleitner's home for safety, tricks Ferguson into the corn silo and suffocates him under tons of corn, then uses Ferguson's shotgun to kill McFee. Samuel, hearing the gunshots, heads back to the farm. Schaeffer forces Rachel and Eli out of the house at gunpoint; Eli signals to Samuel to ring the farm's bell. Book confronts Schaeffer, who threatens to kill Rachel, but the loud clanging from the bell summons the Amish, who resolutely gather near and silently watch him. With so many witnesses present, Schaeffer gives up and Book arrests him.Book says goodbye to Samuel in the fields and Eli wishes him well "out there among them English", signifying his acceptance of Book as a member of their community. Exchanging a wave with Hochleitner on the road out, Book departs.