The film begins with opening credits on Monday nightlife 21 March 2005 at 19:55 Vancouver Time, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada by Wendy Christensen (Mary Elizabeth Winstead), an obsessive-compulsive driven high school graduate from McKinley High, photographing her friends on a ride called the "High Dive". Shortly after she takes their picture, she notices the letter "V" missing out of the ride name, but thinks nothing of it. As the beginning of the movie progresses, we're introduced to several characters, including Wendy's boyfriend Jason Wise (Jesse Moss), her best friend Carrie Dreyer (Gina Holden), and her boyfriend Kevin Fischer (Ryan Merriman), as well as several other characters; the jock Lewis Romero (Texas Battle), the valley-girlesque Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin (Chelan Simmons and Crystal Lowe), the social outcasts Ian McKinley and Erin Ulmer (Kris Lemche and Alexz Johnson), as well as Wendy's attitude-laden sister Julie (Amanda Crew) and the troublesome alumnus Frankie Cheeks (Sam Easton). Before the premonition, the hydraulic pump beneath Lewis Romero's seat begins to leak when a roller coaster attendant secures his seat restraint. The premonition begins when Wendy Christensen has sat herself toward the back of the roller coaster and pulls her digital camera out to snap a photo. The moment the camera takes the picture, a roller coaster attendant waves his hand in front of her, ruining the photo. He points to a sign explaining that no cameras or loose articles can remain on the ride. Kevin suggests that he put her camera in a pocket inside of his jacket. A few rows ahead, Frankie Cheeks overhears the attendant and conceals his video camera inside of his jacket. Kevin becomes excited for the ride until he withdraws his hand from the handlebar in front of him after getting his fingers stuck in sticky gum left by a previous passenger. The attendants give the OK to start the ride, and the roller coaster begins its ascension to the top of the initial drop. As the ride progresses, the leaking hydraulic line rattles and loosens. While going through a loop, Frankie yells at Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin to flash him. Annoyed, Ashlyn slaps the camera out of Frankie's hand, which magically catches onto and wraps around the tracks at the bottom of the loop. The coaster runs over the camera, which loosens a wheel on the left side of the front cart, and severs the hydraulic line and unlocks all of the safety restraints, threatening the lives of all of the passengers. As the roller coaster continues along the tracks, the front left wheel pops off, showering sparks onto the passengers. As the passengers scream in terror, they attempt to remain in their seats while the coaster runs through corkscrews, hills, and sharp turns. More pieces from the coaster train break off. As the coaster hops over a hill and makes a sharp turn, the force causes carts one through three to separate from carts four through six. The front three carts fly off the tracks, killing Carrie Dreyer, Jason Wise, Ashley, Ashlyn, Frankie, and five others. Lewis is thrown out of his seat but manages to hang onto the coaster for dear life as it travels through more corkscrews. He loses his grip and is flung toward the back of the coaster where he is narrowly saved by Kevin Fischer. As Kevin catches Lewis, his seat restraint breaks away. Kevin manages to hang onto Lewis before a metal covering from the cart in which Lewis sat breaks away and smashes into him, sending him flying into a steel support beam, snapping his spine in half and causing a part of the support beam to jut out over a portion of the roller coaster tracks. The piece of metal that hit Lewis smashes onto another portion of the roller coaster tracks, causing the tracks to become uneven. The roller coaster continues to bunny hop toward another large loop, where, as it ascends toward the top of the loop, it begins to slow to a stop due to the train's missing wheel grinding against the tracks. The coaster becomes stuck upside down at the top of the loop. Erin Ulmer and Ian McKinley fall from their seats but are able to hang on to their restraints. Shortly after, they lose their grip, and Ian falls to his death, followed by Erin. Two unseen characters, later revealed to be Perry Malinowski and Julie Christensen, fall out of their seats to their deaths as well. Kevin and Wendy attempt to get the coaster out of the loop by rocking it backward. They succeed, but in the process, Kevin gets his coat stuck on a broken piece of his missing seat restraint as the coaster goes backward. The piece of support beam that juts out over the tracks from when Lewis was killed slices through Kevin's torso, cutting him in half. Wendy screams in horror and cries before the coaster hits the dislodged portion of the track. The train scorpion-tails backward as it is ripped off from the tracks and falls to the ground. Wendy is thrown out of her seat as the coaster falls, and she is killed when she lands on another portion of tracks below and it is then revealed that the derailment was a vision of Wendy's, and the roller coaster is still at its station. She panics and the roller coaster attendants release the seat restraints only in carts four through six, allowing several of the students off before a large fight ensues. Ashley and Ashlyn get off the ride, followed by Frankie who is videotaping them. Jason attempts to leave the coaster, but can't get the attention of the ride operator due to the fight. The remaining passengers begin to chant "Hey! Ho! Let's go!", prompting the ride operator to start the ride. As a security guard leads Wendy and the other students toward the exit of the ride, Wendy notices Jason and Carrie are still in the roller coaster. Panicked, she runs back to the ride platform and tells the attendants to stop the ride his screams "Stop it! No! Stop it! Stop it! Please! Please, the tracks are broken. Stop! Stop! Please! Jason!", but is forced outside of the ride exit. As Wendy and Kevin are escorted away on security guard word Voice tell "Hey, just relax, OK Please Ease up, man. She's all right. OK Just let her settle down. She can settle down at home Now listen what is your home phone number OK, we're gonna call your mother. Everything will be taken care of......" from the ride, the roller coaster crashes, killing Jason, Carrie and five others along with Wendy start cries word voice tell "Jason!".Several weeks later, Wendy is at the school and is confronted by Kevin, concerned about her and the loss of Jason and Carrie. Wendy insists to be left alone. Ashley and Ashlyn invite her to a tanning session, and she takes their phone number. As she makes her way to her car, Kevin explains that this has happened before, with flight 180 and the seven people who got off and mysteriously died. Wendy drives off as thunder booms overhead.Ashley and Ashlyn head over to their favorite tanning salon, hoping to bronze up for the graduation. They both have slurpees, and the owner insists they throw them away, as he heads off to complete a phone call. Ashley merely pretends to throw her drink away, and they both head to the tanning room, where they proceed to disrobe. Ashley sets her drink right above a cooling unit of the tanning beds. She also reaches for a CD, leaning on a shelf and slightly loosening it on the side. The owner heads out the door, with only a tube of lotion holding it open. However, the lotion squirts out, and the door closes shut and locks.Meanwhile, Wendy is looking over the photos she took the night of the accident, after promising Julie to borrow the camera to her. Julie lends her a bracelet left behind as a family heirloom. It's then she notices a photo of Jason with a foreshadowing of the coaster behind him as it is about to hit his head, and gets an eerie feeling as the light bulb dims in and out. She then looks at the picture of Ashley and Ashlyn, which appears to be over-saturated, reminiscent of flames. She finds Ashley's number and proceeds to dial.Back at the tanning salon, Ashley's slurpee has begun to leave a water residue, which leaks into the cooling unit and forces the temperature to rise slightly. As the girls seem to notice this, a cooling fan causes a coat rack to to fall over and knock over a plant, causing the plant to fall onto the shelf and collapse. The panel from the self slides right between the handles of both beds, locking Ashley and Ashlyn in as the temperature rapidly rises. Both girls wince and scream in agony as the bulbs begin overheating and eventually breaking, causing their skin to bubble, and soon a fire breaks out, setting both beds ablaze. The owner tries to get in, but the back door is locked, and he also locked the front. The girls are burned alive in the blazing tanning beds.The next scene is at Vancouer English Roman Catholic Cemetery funeral, where Ian begins questioning the preacher's comments about the equality of death and is led off by Lewis and Kevin. Afterward, Kevin finds Wendy kneeling at Jason's death grave (Age: 18, Born: Monday 23 February 1987, Died: Monday 30 May 2005, Status: Deceased), and she begins to show him pictures that depict what's going to happen beforehand, including a picture showing a plane's shadow about to crash into the World Trade Center in Manhattan, New York City. Suddenly, a strange wind blows over both of them, and Kevin tells Wendy he's going to get her some food.The two go to a local drive-thru restaurant, unaware that Frankie is ahead of them in his sports coupe. On the way, the two almost hit a truck in their vehicle, forcing the driver to jump aside. They get to the drive-thru of the restaurant, noticing a vehicle is pulling behind them and also to the side, blocking Wendy's exit. The sign also shows a the word "control" glitching out, and soon the radio kicks on, playing "Turn Around, Look at Me" by the Lettermen. Suddenly, Wendy and Kevin notice a driverless truck coming their way. They can't escape the vehicle, and they unknowingly honk at Frankie to move aside, only to have him flip them off. The couple behind them move their car, and they smash the windshield and jump out of the vehicle before the runaway truck hits it. The vehicles collide, forcing Kevin's car to eject its engine out of the front. It slides along the back of Frankie's car, and the fan cuts right into the back of his head, killing him. Wendy and Kevin go to check who the dead person was, and a "jolt" moment occurs when the fan spins one last time, splattering Frankie's brains all over the wall.After a talk with the coroner, Kevin and Wendy begin to calculate Death's design and who was sitting where on the roller coaster. They look over the photos and decide to pay Lewis a visit while he's in the middle of a workout. Lewis dismisses their claims and proceeds with his workout, even as Wendy points out to Kevin that his photo shows a Sultan caricature with swords, a weight dropping on his head, and a crying bear in the picture. (There's a tall bear statue and a sign with loose swords in the weight room). Lewis begins to work out with the other team members around him, causing the swords above his weight machine to rattle loose. Suddenly, one of Lewis' teammates accidentally jars a tooth out of the bear's mouth, forcing a weight lifter to drop his weights. Lewis stops for a moment, and the swords come down, missing him and instead cutting off a cable on the machine he's working on, unbeknownst to Wendy, Kevin and Lewis. Lewis takes this moment of apparent victory over Death and lifts the weights one more time, only to have the the two weights on top smash his head to bits.After a conversation about the bizarre occurrences, Wendy and Kevin make their way to a hardware store where Ian and Erin work. Ian is seen shooting at pigeons with a nail gun, then sets it down. He then makes light of the events that are occurring and makes fun with Wendy and Kevin. However, soon some accidents are set into motion and a forklift begins moving and knocking objects around, and it forces it to start lifting on a wall loaded with objects, including sharpened stakes and pieces of flat plywood. As Ian theorizes about Death's design, Wendy notices the stakes, and Kevin saves him as various items begin falling down. The plywood boards soon start stacking on top of each other, and a piece of wood flies off and penetrates a bag of sawdust, blinding Erin. She ends up falling backwards and lands with the back of her head against a nail gun, and nine rounds end up getting fired through her head and hand, killing her. Wendy, Kevin and Ian stare in horror.After a visit to the police station and the disbelief that follows, Wendy and Kevin split up, with Ian unnoticeably looking at Wendy from his truck. Wendy ends up falling asleep at her house, and Julie comes along to take the lucky bracelet back, for good luck. Upon leaving, Wendy wakes up and realizes that Julie and her friend Perry sneaked into the ride as well, upon identifying the bracelet in a photograph. She calls Kevin and informs him that his photo looks like something glaring, with bright lights. It's then that Kevin informs her that he's overlooking security at a colonial fair, complete with fireworks, and Wendy starts heading out the door to the fair. Soon, the song she heard at the drive-thru begins playing again, and she notices a vehicle following her. She almost hits a wolf in the middle of the road but continues to the fair.Kevin notices Julie and her friends Perry (Maggie Ma) and Amber (Ecstasia Sanders) at the fair and tries to talk to her, but she runs off after being annoyed by him. Meanwhile, an actor at the fair leaves his lighting stick in front of a cannon, knocking it sideways and forcing a cannonball to run along and knock one of the firework trailer cars off balance. Wendy shows up, suspecting Kevin might be struck by fireworks. As the show at the fair starts, and fireworks begin to go off, a couple of teenagers set off some firecrackers, startling a nearby horse. The horse begins running through the crowd, dragging a wooden stake behind him. Julie ends up getting the rope tied around her neck, and almost gets impaled on a rake that the horse jumps over. Kevin, however, manages to cut her loose. It's then that Wendy asks the frantic Julie who was sitting next to her on the roller coaster, and she glances at Perry. As Perry realizes this and begins standing up, the horse, still startled, pulls a flagpole off a trailer, which launches itself into Perry's back, killing her.After a close call with Kevin where he is nearly killed by a blazing gas leak, Julie and Wendy begin to drag him off, only to run into Ian, who thinks that he is the cause of Wendy's death (indicated by a shirt she was wearing, bearing his last name, which is also the name of their school). He confronts them as a firework cart begins wobbling and aims the fireworks right at them. The three duck as the fireworks go off, which entirely avoid Ian. Thinking he's safe and that Wendy is next, a loosened crane of a cherry picker that was struck by fireworks launches the McKinley sign downwards which cuts Ian in half. His corpse appears to be flipping off the three, and the screen fades to white.Five months later, on Monday 21 November 2005 as "FIVE MONTHS LATER", Wendy is shown to be in another town, starting a new life with her friends. She is on board of a subway train along with them, and starts to notice advertisements of the locations the previous deaths occurred at, as well as the "Turn Around, Look at Me" song being sung by a patron. She then gets uncomfortable and tries to exit the train, but is stopped by Julie, who also boards the train. As she does, a group of football fans drop an unfinished candy bar, which misses a trash can and falls onto the tracks, where a rat begins eating it As the doors close, Wendy can't help but notice that the train's number is "081", which, in the reflection of a mirror she is looking at, reads "180", the ominous number in the franchise. She is unnerved, but sits down to talk to Julie. As they speak, she notices Kevin riding on the train as well, and goes over to ask why he's there. As he begins talking, she notices something is wrong as the lights begin to dim. Meanwhile, the rat chews on the candy bar, but gets too close to electricity and fries itself, causing the tracks to switch over. The train then goes haywire, and everyone panics as it flies off the tracks. Julie is obliterated by the train's wheel, and Kevin is thrown against a cracked window and is unable to move as it slowly begins to grow weaker. The window finally breaks and Kevin is jettisoned outside, screaming as he is violently ground between the train and tunnel wall. Wendy clings onto a pole, screaming, until the train crashes and she is thrown outside. Wendy sees that everyone is dead around her, and she crawls, seeing her leg is severely injured. Wendy begins crying and soon afterwards another train approaches her at full speed. She begins screaming word voice tell "No!" and just as the train is about to hit her it is revealed to the be another premonition she had while talking to Kevin - but this time, the premonition has taken place mere seconds before the accident which it depicted word voice tell "I was gonna look you up afterwards, but You OK Is somethin' wrong." Wendy alarms Kevin and Julie about the train as Kevin grabs the emergency brake along with Julie and Wendy try to pry the door open his Wendy as final last end closing word voice tell "The train. Oh, shit. Not again. We gotta get out It's not working. Somebody stop the train" the lights begin to flash and the final closing last screen cuts to black on heard is the crashing destroy collapse of the subway train earthquake full death kill corpse burial blood and the movie ends, movie closes, film ends to film closes with closing credits to roll with metal horror mystery ghost musician by Tommy Lee provided a cover of The O'Jays 1972 song "Love Train" plays, followed by closing musical including instrumental of "Final Destination 3 Main Theme" by Shirley Walker. At the end of the credits you will hear the horror mystery ghost (William Bludworth) laugh.THE END