A little girl named Eliza rides her tricycle around the neighborhood, singing along, but she hits the lawn and as she tries to get out, Horace Nebbercracker snaps and takes the tricycle and removes the wheel to tempt her to go away. A 12-year-old boy DJ Walters spies on his elderly neighbor Mr. Nebbercracker who confiscates any item landing in his yard. DJ's parents Mr. and Mrs. Walters leave town for the weekend for a dentist convention and leaving him in the care of Zee. DJ's friend Chowder loses his basketball on Mr. Nebbercracker's lawn. DJ is caught by Mr. Nebbercracker while recovering it.DJ suddenly creates a dirt spot in the grass of Mr. Nebbercracker's lawn and scolds him saying what has he done, DJ apologizes in rough motion, then Mr. Nebbercracker loses his temper and gets really mad saying DJ is dead, DJ tries running away back to Chowder from Mr. Nebbercracker getting off his lawn as he chases him down and is too late since he wasn't running fast enough, he grabs him and yells at him to stay off his lawn, before apparently suffering a heart attack and being taken away by an ambulance to the hospital.That night, DJ receives phone calls from Mr. Nebbercracker's house with no one on the other end. Zee's boyfriend Bones scared DJ from behind while wearing Chowder's Halloween mask & takes it off. After Zee and Bones left downstairs, DJ called Chowder and told him to meet him at the Danger Zone. DJ quietly walked downstairs and went out the back door while Zee and Bones were in the living room. Bones tells Zee about losing his kite the Awesome Kite on Mr. Nebbercracker's lawn when he was younger, and that Mr. Nebbercracker supposedly ate his wife.Later Bones sees his kite in the doorway of Mr. Nebbercracker's house, but he and the kite are med by the haunted house as he is retrieving it. Later DJ went to the Danger Zone so he can meet Chowder there. He found Chowder on the backhoe and tolds him that Mr. Nebbercracker had come back from the dead to get revenge. Later they came to Mr. Nebbercracker's lawn and Chowder rings the doorbell. This also awakens the house, and it tries to grab him with it's tongue carpet and fails. It later roars at DJ and Chowder which caused them to run to DJ's house.The next morning, a Westbrook Prep student named Jenny Bennett is selling Halloween candies. DJ and Chowder see her going to Mr. Nebbercracker's house and they rush out to warn her catching her before she is eaten by the house. Jenny then calls Officer Landers and Officer Lister, but does not believe their story. Later the trio seek advice from Skull who is claimed to be an expert on the supernatural. They learn that the house is a Domus Mactabilis (Deadly Home in Latin) a supernatural being created when a human soul merges with structures.They assumed the house is inhabited by Mr. Nebbercracker's soul. The only way to kill the house is to destroy its heart which it's source of life. They conclude that the heart must be the fireplace as DJ realizes that the chimney has been smoking since Mr. Nebbercracker died. Chowder provides a cold medicine-filled dummy (made from a vacuum cleaner and some other objects) that should cause the house to sleep long enough for them to douse the furnace. Officer Landers and Officer Lister thwart their plan upon arrival and they are arrested when Officer Landers finds the cold medicine that Chowder stole from the pharmacy his father worked at inside the dummy. The cops place the trio in their car while they examine the house. The house eats Officer Landers, Officer Lister and the police car. DJ, Chowder and Jenny escapes the police car, but were trapped in the house.The house falls asleep, and they begin exploring. They fall into the basement and find a collection of toys accumulated from Mr. Nebbercracker's lawn, as well as a cage containing the body of Mr. Nebbercracker's wife Constance Nebbercracker encased in cement. The house realizes they are inside and attacks them. DJ, Chowder and Jenny force the house to vomit them outside by grabbing its uvula. Mr. Nebbercracker arrived home alive and revealed that the house is possessed by his wife Constance. When he was young, Horace met Constance who was an unwilling member of a circus sideshow and fell in love with her despite her obesity. After helping her escape, she and Horace began building the house.1 Halloween day as children tormented her, Constance tried hurting them with an axe, but lost her footing and died in the foundations of the house. The cement buried her body. Horace finished the house after Constance's death knowing it was what she would have wanted. Aware that Constance's spirit made the house come alive, Horace tried to keeping people away by pretending to hating them for their safety.DJ tells Mr. Nebbercracker it is time to let Constance go, but she overhears. The house breaks free from its foundation and chases the group to a construction site. Nebbercracker attempts to convince Constance that she should die while holding stick of dynamite, but Constance refuses. As she tries to eat him, Chowder fights the house off with an excavator, causing it to fall into a pit. DJ is given the dynamite and he and Jenny climb to the top of a tower crane while Chowder distracts Constance.DJ throws the dynamite into the chimney, destroying the house. The trio see Horace with his wife Constance's ghost for the last time before she fades away. DJ apologizes to him for the loss of his house and wife, but Mr. Nebbercracker thanks DJ and the kids for freeing him and Constance. That night, children in their Halloween costumes are lined up at the site of Mr. Nebbercracker's house where DJ, Chowder and Jenny help him return the toys to their owners. Jenny's mother Ms. Bennett picks her up. Before she left, she gives DJ and Chowder a group hug. DJ and Chowder then go trick-or-treating which they previously thought they were too old for.As the credits roll, the victims who were eaten by the house emerge from the wreckage. Bones finds out that Zee is now dating Skull, then Officer Landers and Officer Lister leave to "investigate" some of the trick-or-treating candy & the dog urinates on a nearby jack-o'-lantern enough to put out its flame.