Andy McDermott (Tom Everett Scott) is a tourist seeing the sights of Paris with his friends Brad (Vince Vieluf) and Chris (Phil Buckman). When Serafine Pigot (Julie Delpy) leaps off the Eiffel Tower just before Andy is about to bungee jump, he executes a mid-air rescue. She vanishes into the night, leaving Andy intrigued - unaware that she is the daughter of David Kessler and Alex Price, the couple seen 16 years earlier in the first film. That night, Andy, Chris, and Brad attend a night club called "Club de la Lune". The club's owner, Claude (Pierre Cosso), is actually the leader of a werewolf society that uses the club as a way to lure in people (preferably tourists) to be killed. Serafine arrives, tells Andy to run away and transforms into a werewolf. Claudes henchman transform into werewolves as well, and slaughter all the guests. Chris escapes and goes back to Serafine's house. Brad is killed by a werewolf, and Andy is bitten by another werewolf when he tries to escape.The next day, Andy wakes up at Serafine's house. Serafine blends organs in the blender, and he is still in shock, but Serafine allows him to feel her breasts to calm him down. She tells him he's transforming into a werewolf. This is interrupted by the sudden appearance of the ghost of Serafine's mother Alex. Andy jumps out the window in sheer panic and begins running away. Chris tries to get his attention, but Claude grabs him and holds his hand over his mouth and takes him back to his club. Soon, Brad's ghost appears to Andy and explains Andy's werewolf condition. For Andy to become normal again, he must eat the heart of the werewolf that bit him; and, for Brad's ghost to be at rest, the werewolf that killed him must be killed, too. After developing an appetite for raw meat, Andy hooks up with an American tourist named Amy (Julie Bowen), but he transforms and kills her. Andy also kills a cop who had been tailing him, suspecting Andy was involved in the Club de la Lune massacre. Andy is arrested but escapes. He begins to see Amy's ghost as well, and she begins trying to kill him.Claude and his henchmen kidnap Andy to join their society but to prove his loyalty, Andy must kill Chris. Serafine rescues Andy, explaining that her stepfather prepared a drug to control werewolf transformations. However, the drug forces werewolves to immediately transform into their beast form. As a result, she killed her mother and savaged her stepfather. Claude and the other werewolves raid Serafine's stepfather's lab and kill him, taking the drug to transform immediately.Serafine and Andy learn of a Fourth of July party Claude has planned and infiltrate it as well as the police. Serafine manages to kill the bouncer (who has blocked the entrance with a bulldozer) by dropping a stone statue on him from outside the church. Claude and his men transformer and several partygoers are killed as well as cops. They help the partygoers escape, and Andy manages to kill the werewolf that ate Brad's heart, thus setting Brad free. Police reinforcements arrive, and a fight ensues. Andy and Serafine pursue the werewolves into the catacombs as well as the police resulting in the death of the Chief of police, with Serafine shifting to her werewolf form to fight when she runs out of ammunition. During a fight between Serafine and another werewolf which she manages to kill, Andy shoots the werewolf, but it turns out that it was Serafine. Injured and in alot of pain she begs him to kill her with a switchblade but he is unable to as he loves her, and police who arrive on the scene assume that he is trying to kill her before he escapes to go after Claude as he's the last werewolf.
Andy accidentally slips and falls through a shaft landing on the subway tracks
Claude makes his way down the shaft towards Andy but before he's able to attack him a train slams into him however he manages to survive killing the conductor and a passenger before the effects of the depressant wear off, causing him to transform back to a human. He tries to take another dose of the drug, but Andy stops him. As they fight, Andy discovers that Claude is the werewolf that bit him (due to a scar on his left shoulder caused when Andy stabbed the werewolf with a spear). Claude tries to inject himself with the drug but Andy manages to stop him and they fight fight over the syringe accidentally causing Claude accidentally injects Andy instead. Realizing what he's done a terrified Claude tried to run away but Andy turns out to be quicker jumps on top of Claude transforms into a werewolf, kills him and eats his heart and howls, breaking the werewolf curse over him. Serafine is taken in an ambulance, but she begins to show signs of transforming. The EMT, thinking she is going into shock, administers adrenaline, which stops the transformation. The sedative, which was thought to be the "cure", actually triggered the change and adrenaline has the opposite effect.The final scene depicts Serafine and Andy celebrating their wedding atop the Statue of Liberty with Andy's pal Chris, who survived. The couple seem to be controlling the curse with a steady application of adrenaline-fueled activities. They bungee jump off the statue as the credits roll.In an alternate ending, after Andy eats Claude's heart, Serafine has a vision of her stepfather in the back of an ambulance, explaining how he found a cure before his death. The new closing scene shows Serafine and Andy having a child, whose eyes shift to look like the werewolves'.