The Full Monty begins with 6 steelworkers in the North of England being laid off. Gaz, Dave (Gaz' best mate), Nathan (Gaz's son), Lomper (the mill security guard), Gerald (the foreman at the mill before it closed) Horse (a good dancer) and Guy (a well-endowed man who can't dance) decide that after seeing the girls go crazy in the bar for a stripper. However, nobody has ever done 'The Full Monty', so the guys are prepared to give it a go in order to earn some money to pay the bills and live. Gaz also has a son called Nathan, from his ex-wife Mandy, who helps them with the dance routine. Gaz is not a great father, but he does his best. His ex-wife clearly doesn't like him and berates him for picking up his son late and not paying the child support, one of the many bills he can't pay because he is unemployed. Nevertheless, all six boys start rehearsing and audition some other people to join their group. Gaz needs to pay £100 if he wants to book the club to perform on the night, which he can't afford. Luckily, Nathan uses the money from his savings and the gig is back on! Dave drops out as he thinks he is too fat and becomes a security guard at Asda. Gaz spots him on his weekly shop, confronts him, then steals from the shop and runs away. Dave can't catch him. The guys are putting up posters for the show when they are spotted by two girls. Gaz boasts that they are better than other strip-tease acts as they do 'The Full Monty'. In the warehouse where they practice, they do a public dress rehearsal in front of horse's female members of the family. This ends badly as Gaz's son is with them (he is on the music) and the gang gets spotted by a policeman, who is on the beat, patrolling the street. They make a run for it, but Gaz, Gerald, and horse are caught and arrested for indecent exposure. Gaz now can't see his son, Nathan, who he needs to play the music at his strip-tease act. Lomper and Guy escape to Lomper's house where the two look lovingly at each other. Gerald gets thrown out by his wife after the bailiffs come and he goes to stay with Gaz. In the club, Gaz refuses to go on because the policeman is there as well as some other men when it says girls only. His son persuades him to go on and they all have a lot of fun together. The film ends with the strip act!