The Queen of France summons the Grimm Brothers and, producing a pair of glass slippers as proof, she tells them the real story of Cinderella.Danielle de Barbarac is 8 years old when her father, Auguste de Barbarac (Jeroen Krabbé), a wealthy 16th century french landowner, brings home his new wife, Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent (Anjelica Huston) and her two daughters Marguerite and Jacqueline. Shortly after, he dies of a heart attack, leaving Danielle in the care of her stepmother.Ten years later, Danielle (Drew Barrymore) is treated as a servant in her own house. Jacqueline (Melanie Lynskey), the younger of the Baroness's daughters, shows her a little kindness and sympathy, but her mother and sister treat her only with contempt. Danielle accidently meets the prince of France, Henry (Dougray Scott) when he steals a horse from their manor, while fleeing from the castle, pursued by the royal guard, in order to escape an arranged marriage and his parents restrictions. After throwing apples at him, and calling him a thief, she recognises him and begs for mercy. Taken aback, he agrees to be lenient, and gives her coins for her silence.While fleeing on horseback, the Prince comes across some gypsies robbing a travelling old man. At the man's request, he reluctantly chases one to reclaim a painting. On returning it, the old man is discovered to be Leonardo da Vinci (Patrick Godfrey), on his way to the royal court as artist in residence, and the painting the Mona Lisa. In returning the painting, Henry gives himself up to the Royal Guard. He returns the horse to the Manor, where he is greeted by the Baroness who introduces him to her daughters, particularly to Marguerite (Megan Dodds), whom she hopes he will marry.Danielle uses the money to pose as a courtier and to buy back an old servant, Maurice (Walter Sparrow), whom the Baroness had sold to pay her taxes. While doing this, she meets Prince Henry again, this time dressed as a Lady, and delivers a spirited defence on behalf of the servants. Henry is enchanted by not only her beauty but by her intelligence and spirit. She eventually gives a name - Nicole de Lancret, her mother's name, and adds the title of Comtesse. She slips away from him and returns home with Maurice.Meanwhile King Francis (Timothy West) strikes a deal with Henry: a ball will be held in five days time, and, at the stroke of midnight, either Henry must announce his engagement to the girl of his choice, or his father will announce his engagement to Gabriella, the spanish princess. The invitation arrives at the Manor, carried by a royal page (Toby Jones). The Baroness strikes a deal with the page, to find out the latest information about the Prince and his marriage prospects. While preparing for the ball, Marguerite tries on a dress which belonged to Danielle's mother, and is now a part of her dowry. Danielle discovers them, and to cover up what they were doing, the Baroness gives permission for her to attend the ball. Jacqueline is caught between them, knowing their falsehood, and walks out in disgust.Danielle goes for a swim, but bumps into Da Vinci, who is trying to walk on the water, and once more meets the Prince, who is delighted to see her. She continues the pretence of being a Comtesse, but has to leave when she hears Jacqueline calling her. Later at dinner, it is revealed that several items have gone missing from the Manor, and the Baroness reduces the servants' wages until they are returned. Jacqueline tells the news that the Prince asked the King to release all the servants being sent to the Americas, and that all those sent there must now be compensated.Marguerite attends a tennis match between Prince Henry and the Marquis de Limoges, and catches the ball. While in town, Danielle is accosted by Pierre le Pieu (Richard O'Brien), a lascivious, middle-aged man, who threatens to withdraw his support. After he is gone, the Prince and Marguerite walk past Danielle's stall, but Danielle avoids him by throwing a chicken at him.