Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, Kenny McCormick and Eric Cartman are eager to see the new Terrance and Phillip film, "Asses of Fire." However, they soon learn that due to the film's language, it is rated R, and they need a parent or adult guardian to attend. The boys get around this by bribing a homeless man to purchasing the tickets for them.After seeing the film, the boys go to Stark's Pond, where they soon convince the other kids to see the film too. While at the pond, Stan gets the feeling that his girlfriend Wendy Testaburger, may be infatuated with a new kid named Gregory.Eventually, Stan confides in Chef, about what he can do to make Wendy happy. This leads to Chef offhandedly saying Stan needs to "find the clitoris," puzzling him over what the school chef means.Soon, the language the kids have heard from the film spills over into the school, soon causing a ban on the kids wearing anything related to Terrance and Phillip. Eventually, a number of parents speak out about the film, with the most vocal being Kyle's mom, Sheila. Though the Canadian Prime Minister on a news program does mention the film's rating, Sheila feels more needs to be done.Eventually, guidance counselor Mr Mackey leads the kids in an exercise to get them to say less-naughty words. However, this does not deter the kids from sneaking in to see "Asses of Fire."After another viewing, Cartman dares Kenny to light a fart on fire. This ends up causing Kenny to become horribly burned, and he dies in the hospital, while the boys are further reprimanded for seeing the movie again.Unseen by everyone, Kenny's soul goes to Hell, where he encounters Satan, and soon finds out that Saddam Hussein (who had recently been killed by a pack of wild boars), is his lover.Meanwhile, Terrance and Phillip are ambushed on the Conan O'Brian show, and placed under citizen's arrest by Sheila and a number of other parents. When Canada's demand that the two entertainers be released is not taken seriously, the country bombs the house of the Baldwin family.This is seen as a declaration of war by the President of the United States, and a plan is put under attack to attack Canada, and have Terrance and Phillip executed live on television.A newly-designed "V-chip" electrically curbs Cartman's use of profanity, much to his disgust. In a showstopping full-cast production number, The four boys form an underground movement called "La Resistance" to rescue T&P from electrocution (during a USO show) before America's planned troop surge into Canada. Many town residents have joined the Army, including Chef, whose segregated unit is expected to serve as cannon fodder in "Operation Human Shield", much to Chef's disgust. In Hell, Satan grows increasingly unhappy over continually taking mental abuse from the eternally-horny Saddam Hussein. "La Resistance" mounts a rocky but ultimately successful rescue attempt during the USO show ("Just remember what the MPAA says--'Horrific, deplorable violence is OKAY, as long as people DON'T SAY ANY NAUGHTY WORDS!' "). After the Canadian army's surprise invasion and subsequent horrific battle, Terence and Philip are shot. Once their innocent blood touches the ground, Satan and his minions, and Saddam, come out of Hell to begin conquering Earth. Saddam usurps Satan's prerogative and tries to take over all by himself and is attacked by Cartman, whose V-chip has malfunctioned so that he shoots lightning every time he says a bad word. Encouraged by Kenny, Satan puts Saddam down once and for all, and restores everything on Earth to the way it was before T&P were killed. The boys' mothers learn to blame their own foul-mouthed children rather than "blaming Canada", and everyone rejoices as Kenny gets into Heaven in the big musical finale.