After Mystery, Inc. solves the mystery of the Luna Ghost, long brewing friction between Fred, a glory hog, Daphne, who has become sick of being the one who gets captured, and Velma, from whom Fred regularly steals credit for her plans, causes the gang to disband, leaving and abandoning Scooby and Shaggy. Two years later, the gang reforms after being invited to solve a mystery on Spooky Island, a horror-themed tropical resort owned by Emile Mondavarious. Upon arriving, the gang meets Mondavarious, who claims the visiting tourists have been brainwashed. Velma attends a ritualistic performance hosted by actor N'Goo Tuana and his henchman, Zarkos, a famous luchador. N'Goo claims ancient demons once ruled the island but have been plotting revenge ever since they were displaced by the resort.In the resort's haunted house ride, the gang splits up to look for clues. Fred and Velma encounter a school that educates inhuman creatures about human culture, while Daphne discovers a pyramid-shaped artifact called the Daemon Ritus. The island's demons kidnap and possess Fred, Velma, Mondavarious and other tourists, and Daphne is possessed when Zarkos captures her and steals the Daemon Ritus. Shaggy, in an underground chamber, finds a vat of protoplasm containing the souls of those possessed, and he frees his friends' souls. Velma discovers that sunlight destroys the demons. The gang then encounters a voodoo priest, who explains that the demons, led by Mondavarious, will rule the world for the next ten thousand years if a pure soul is sacrificed during their ritual. Shaggy realizes that the pure soul is Scooby, who unwittingly agrees to be the sacrifice.The gang plots to trap the demon cult, but it fails and only Daphne escapes capture. Mondavarious extracts Scooby's soul using the Daemon Ritus, but Shaggy breaks free and pushes Mondavarious aside, causing Scooby's soul to be released. Fred and Velma discover Mondavarious is actually a robot controlled by Scooby's estranged nephew Scrappy-Doo, whom the gang abandoned years ago after his power-hungry nature became uncontrollable.Using the tourists' souls, Scrappy transforms into a monster and tries to kill the gang. Zarkos attacks and recaptures Daphne, but she defeats him by kicking him into the ritual chamber, where he knocks over the vat and sets the souls free to return to their bodies. Daphne kills the demons by reflecting sunlight via a skull-shaped disco ball. Shaggy rips the Daemon Ritus from Scrappy's body to free the souls and finds the real Mondavarious imprisoned in a small underground cell, having been captured by Scrappy so he could pose as his double. Scrappy, N'Goo, Zarkos and their minions are arrested while the reunited gang promises to continue solving mysteries together.In a mid credits scene, Shaggy and Scooby, taking advantage of the all-you-can-eat part of the contract they were promised, challenge each other as to who can eat the most chilies.