Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) is known as the number one paid assassin in the world. However, after retiring (killing) a "mark" (target) who used to be an assassin himself, he's more and more heavily considering retirement for himself as he is tired of his job and its lifestyle. He also feels quite lonely since he lost his best friend and mentor Nicolai Tashlinkov, who was murdered 15 years ago.As soon as he confirms to his contractor that the mark has been terminated, Rath is offered another contract: A mobster attending his brother's funerals.Rath disguises himself as a man with a broken arm, using the arm cast to hide his pistol and positions himself in front of the mobster. As he's about to make his move and retire his mark, he notices that someone else has already taken the shot and killed the target. Rath then exchanges fire with the unknown killer who allows himself to get arrested by the police when he realizes he is stuck between Rath and the cops, which he considers the safer option. Rath tries to follow the car but is blocked by traffic and loses the cop car.Meanwhile, the killer dislocates his thumb and slips out of his handcuffs before killing the cop driver causing a car crash. He then retrieves his riffle and kills the other cops that were following before fleeing the scene. Rath finds the crashed car and the dead cops. He then gets the idea to steal a taxi and wait for the right call. A single man within the same area going to the airport.Rath gets the right call and immediately recognizes the killer from the cemetery. Because of the bulletproof glass, Rath cannot take him out yet. So Rath provokes an argument with his "client" hoping he will leave the car and Rath can take him out then, but his plan backfires when the man sees his cab driver is not displaying any I.D and realizes the driver is Rath.The man introduces himself to be Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas), a fellow assassin and a competitive sociopath. Bain is a super fan of Rath but still wants to kill him to officially become the number one assassin. Rath decides to sit out and wait for the younger Bain to lose patience and make the first move but Bain outsmarts him by aiming his riffle at an innocent child playing nearby, causing Rath to start driving. Bain tries to shoot Rath through the side window but Rath drives him into a bus causing Bain to lose his gun. As Rath stops the car to get out and shoot Bain, their shenanigans have attracted the cops' attention and they are now being chased. Bain jumps out of the car unnoticed by the cops and escapes. Rath is able to escape when he joins the cab company's home base where a hundred similar taxi cars are parked.As Rath inquires about Bain to his contractor, he gets the feeling he is being set up as a mark and should retire now. Just then, his contractor offers him a new job: One that pays 2 million dollars. Rath accepts the contract thinking it will be his last job and the money is good to retire. The job is to kill an unknown computer hacker who has no known identity but the logo of a cat's eyes, and the four Dutch buyers to whom he/she intends to sell an encrypted computer disk and retrieve the disk.The hacker, who later calls herself Electra (Julianne Moore), is a woman who has been living in complete anonymity for years now and with no personal attachment other than her cat Pearl. She has also set up hidden cameras in all the other apartments of her building to keep an eye on everyone around her.Rath tracks the buyers from the airport to a Marriott's hotel where Electra has set up the meeting. Rath then uses the hotel's computer system to try and locate the hacker. When he stumbles upon a room that has been ordering coffee all morning and then a can of tuna fish, Rath deduces he has found who he is looking for based on Electra's known logo.Electra has set up cameras and an elaborate mechanism for remotely moving items between rooms of the hotel and uses it to make the exchange with the buyers. They pay her through her ventilation shaft system and she connects remotely to their computer to transfer the disk content and decrypt it.In the meantime, Bain makes his way to the buyers' room and kills all of them, including people outside of their room who all turn out to be Interpol agents. He tries to lure Electra into completing the transmission but she picks up on his accent right away and deletes everything she had transferred so far. She tries to escape her room but Rath intercepts her. He then finds himself unable to kill her so he spares her life and escapes with her.Electra, not sure she can trust Robert, tries to escape him by running to a bus but has to leave Pearl behind which Robert retrieves and uses to track down Electra's home by visiting her favorite pet store. Meanwhile, Bain finds pictures in Electra's hotel room which he uses to pin down her apartment building. Finding a car with the engine still hot, he heads for the wrong apartment and kills her neighbors while Electra sees everything from her apartment. Rath arrives with Pearl and makes a deal with Electra to let her leave but meet up later. He then gets in a shoot out with Bain which ends when Bain is blasted out of the apartment after Rath lit up the gas line.Rath takes Electra to a motel to rest and think about their next move. Electra grabs Robert's gun and threatens to kill him and disappear but Robert shows no fear, confident she doesn't have what it takes to kill, which he is proven right. The two spend an awkward night, both not having been in close quarters with another human being for years. She sleeps on the bed while he sleeps on the floor with his gun at the ready.Robert offers Electra half of his fee for the job if she will assist him in collecting his fee in exchange for the disk. Everything proceeds smoothly but Rath quickly realizes the suitcase carrying his money also carries a bomb. He dumps the suitcase just in time to watch it explode from the rear view mirror. Lucky for them, Electra didn't trust Robert entirely and had given him a fake disk.Now convinced his contractor is actively trying to kill him, Rath offers to surrender the disk in exchange for 20 million dollars instead of the original two, and requests it to be wired to a specific bank in the Caribbeans before he delivers the disk.The contractor agrees to Rath's conditions and then hires Bain to take a contract on him. Rath and Electra travel to the bank the day before the transfer, where Rath identifies the decrepit, abandoned hotel that he knows Bain will use as a snipping post and plans a trap. He also reveals that the bank, the hotel and the plan were all chosen specifically because of what both Rath and Bain know. 15 years ago, it was Rath who stood in this hotel room all day to kill his best friend and mentor Nicolai after accepting to take a contract he has been regretting ever since.That night, still shocked by Robert's revelation that he killed his own best friend and being fascinated by the Day of the dead parade taking place, Electra escapes their hotel room. However, she soon wishes she hadn't when she spots Miguel Bain at a beer stand. Lucky for her, he doesn't see her and soon assumes the perfume he is smelling comes from actual Jasmine flowers laid close by. She is also found by Rath who takes her safely back to their room.The next day, Robert goes inside the bank to confirm the transfer and then closes out the account and collects the money in cash. An operation that takes several hours to perform. Robert patiently waits inside, knowing Bain is in position outside going crazier and crazier from the wait. Meanwhile, Electra is sitting at a public cafe, keeping an eye on Bain and waiting for him to leave his position and go check on Robert to make sure he is still in the bank. When it finally happens, she runs into the abandoned hotel to retrieve Bain's riffle so he can't shoot Robert. However, Bain was smart and hid the riffle. She finally finds it but it's out of reach and she falls through the floor. She is able to get back on her feet but it's too late. Bain is already running back to his position after confirming Rath is still in the bank. As Rath exits the bank, Bain notices Rath taking out his earpiece which tells him Rath is not alone. Just then he recognizes Electra's Jasmine perfume in the air. Electra uses Robert's pistol and shoots Bain in the back which causes him to misfire. Robert runs to the hotel.Robert then faces Bain in a lethal game of hide and seek which Bain loses when he is shot and falls through multiple floors.After Bain's apparent death, Nicolai appears, revealing that he was Robert's contractor all along and that he himself had set up his own assassination 15 years ago so he could disappear. On that day, he wore a protective device knowing exactly where Rath would shoot him. He also reveals that the disk contains information that would bring him out of the shadow should it ever be decrypted, which is why he wanted to kill Elektra and retrieve the disk before Interpol did.Understanding that Nicolai will most likely kill him too, Bain revives and joins Rath in shooting him dead. Bain pretends to make peace with Rath and allow him to retire but then reveals he still wants to kill Rath and become number one. He tries to shoot him in the back but Electra puts on her sunglasses, allowing Rath to see Bain; Rath shoots Bain through his own jacket and kills him. Electra then retrieves the money and the disk and both leave the hotel, ready to enjoy their respective retirement and revealing to each other their real names.