JFK sits on the porch of his West Texas nursing home reading through the current presidential daily briefing, where he encounters a worrying paragraph on a current assassination program currently underway in the heart of government. The Harvey Oswald - Tom E Parker (Ho-Tep) Operation is, as he feared, finally funded and fully functional.
Wasting no time, he calls his old friend in the other room (Elvis Presley) on their specially designed conch receiver to break the terrible news. As both men read the finer details it becomes clear that that their worst fears have been realized.
Meanwhile, over in the bowels of Washington DC's counter-intelligence community, 4 Eyptian marksmen are having their final debrief and visa checks. A shadowy figure looms in the corner (Colonel Tom E Parker) touching his thigh and mumbling the theme tune to an unknown TV commercial. It is not known at this point if the assassins will ever be armed of if they are just there for their visa process.
Supper time at the nursing home and JFK is complaining about his head-aches again. The nurse chastises him for the poker games he and Elvis are conducting and with a wry smile she slaps him hard across the forehead with her pocket watch, Elvis see's this from the other side of the room, humming the same theme tune we heard earlier from the man in the shadows.
That night, as all the feeble and elderly sleep, 4 men make their way slowly up the steps to the back gate of the nursing home. Quietly dispatching the sleeping gardener they then unpack what appears to be a small arsenal of weapons from their sports bags and make their way into the nursing home kitchens.
Not being able to sleep, Elvis and JFK tend to their knife collection in earnest when they hear the sound of footsteps, manly footsteps. Before they are able to talk of plans and take position the men enter the room and a large ruckus takes hold. Injuries ensue, mostly too graphic for words, and the 6 men continue to hurt each other as much as possible over the course of the next 43 minutes.
Sunrise. JFK and Elvis are laying, their fingers entwined, blood up and down their pajamas. It is not known at this point if their wounds are fatal but the camera moves slowly down between their 2 mangled bodies, showing their extensive injuries. The nurse enters and assumes the worst. Wasting no time she places a kind pillow over each of their faces and waits patiently for their wriggling protests to stop.
The Egyptians, not wishing to make a scene, stay quietly in the wardrobe and tend to their wounds as the various police and nursing staff conduct their busy activities until noon. Dressing themselves in orderly uniforms, they sneak quietly through the main entrance and into the Texas sun, slowly bleeding out onto the road as the camera fades to black.