In Broome, Western Australia, two British tourists, Liz Hunter and Kristy Earl, are backpacking across the country with Ben Mitchell, an Australian friend from Sydney. Ben buys a dilapidated Ford Falcon for their road journey from Broome to Cairns, Queensland via the Great Northern Highway. After stopping at Halls Creek for the night, the trio makes another stop at Wolf Creek National Park.Hours later, the group discovers that their watches have stopped and the car will not start. After sunset, a man named Mick Taylor comes across them and offers to tow them back to his camp to repair the car. The group goes with him to an abandoned mining site several hours South of Wolf Creek. By the campfire, Mick regales them with stories of his past while making a show of fixing their car. He then gives the tourists water which causes them to fall unconscious.Liz awakens to find herself gagged and tied in a shed. She breaks free and hears Mick torturing Kristy in a garage, and witnesses him sexually assaulting her. Liz sets the now-dismantled Falcon on fire to distract him, and goes to help Kristy. When Mick returns, she shoots him with his own rifle, the bullet hitting him in the neck. The women attempt to flee in Mick's truck. However, Mick stumbles out of the garage, as the gunshot was non-fatal. He proceeds to shoot at them before giving chase. The women evade him by pushing his truck off a cliff before returning to the site to get another car. Liz leaves the hysterical Kristy outside, telling her to escape on foot if Liz does not return in five minutes.Liz enters another garage and discovers Mick's large stock of cars as well as an organized array of backpackers' possessions, including video cameras. She watches the playback on one of them and is horrified to see Mick "helping" other backpackers stranded at Wolf Creek in identical circumstances to her own. She picks up another camera which turns out to be Ben's, and notices Mick's truck in the background of the footage, indicating he'd been following them long before they got to Wolf Creek. She gets into a car but Mick appears in the backseat and stabs her with a hunting knife. Liz crawls out and he hacks her fingers off, then severs her spinal cord, paralyzing her. He then interrogates her as to Kristy's whereabouts.By dawn, a barefoot Kristy has reached a highway and is discovered by a passing motorist. He attempts to help her but is shot dead by Mick with a sniper rifle. Mick gives chase in a Holden HQ Statesman, prompting Kristy to take off in the dead man's car. Mick shoots out her back tire and she attempts to crawl away, but is shot dead. Mick bundles her body and the dead motorist into the back of his car and torches the wrecked car.Ben awakens to find himself nailed to a mock crucifix in a mine shaft with two aggressive, caged Rottweilers in front of him. He extracts himself and enters the camp in early daylight. He escapes into the outback, but becomes dehydrated and passes out beside a dirt road. He is discovered by a Swedish couple who take him to Kalbarri, where he is airlifted to a hospital.A series of title cards states that, despite several police searches, no trace of Liz or Kristy has ever been found. Early investigations into the case were disorganized, hampered by confusion over the location of the crimes, a lack of physical evidence and the alleged unreliability of the only witness. After four months in police custody, Ben was cleared of suspicion.The film ends with Mick walking into the sunset with his rifle.