There is a protest going on outside the U.S. Supreme Court. Inside, GRAY Grantham (Denzel Washington) just finished interviewing Justice ROSENBERG. The two are looking out the window at the protesters and their signs. Rosenberg laughs at how dramatic the signs referencing him are. Rosenberg mentions a quote from one of Gray's article that came from the White House and comments how the administration in the White House got there by riling up the public and pitting them against one another.KHAMEL (Stanley Tucci) takes a raft to shore. In the woods, he finds discreetly hidden vehicle keys and drives off. Khamel drives to Washington DC. Khamel, now disguised differently than before, knocks on the door of a hotel room asking for Mr. Sneller. SNELLER (Stanley Anderson) passes a manila envelope under the door to Khamel who picks it up and then uses a room key to enter the hotel room right next door. Khamel opens the envelope and pulls out a picture of the entire U.S. Supreme Court. Two of the justices in the picture are circled, one of which is Rosenberg.At Tulane Law School, professor Thomas CALLAHAN (Sam Sheppard) is teaching a class debating the right to privacy. He poses a question which is answered by several students including DARBY Shaw (Julia Roberts).There are FBI agents guarding Rosenberg's house. Inside, Rosenberg lays in a hospital type bed while a nurse sits in a chair next to the bed watching TV. Both men are shot in the head by a gun with a silencer. Khamel, disguised differently again, sneaks out the rear of the house, puts on headphones, and pretends to be on a jog as he runs away.Justice JENSEN, the other justice circled in the picture, discreetly enters a gay porn theater and sits down while a movie is playing. There are only a few other people spread out in the theater. Khamel, disguised differently again, enters the theater with a tub of popcorn and sits down in the row behind Jensen. Khamel removes a rope he is wearing as a belt and discreetly strangles Jensen with it killing him. After Jensen is dead, Khamel hides the rope in the popcorn tub.The next morning, the White House Chief of Staff, Fletcher COAL (Tony Goldwyn) is briefing the PRESIDENT (Robert Culp) on the murders of the two justices. FBI Director Denton VOYLES (James Sikking) enters the oval office along with Bob GMINSKI (William Atherton) from the CIA. The president asks Voyles for an update on the investigation and where the breakdown in security occurred since the judges were being guarded by the FBI. The president then ask Gminski if any U.S. agencies could be involved.Darby and Callahan are in bed together watching the president's national address informing the country of the assassinations of the justices. Over coffee, Callahan tells Darby about when he clerked for Rosenberg. They talk about the assassinations and possible motives considering the two justices did not agree with each other on many issues. Darby suggests the authorities should look at what few issues the justices did agree on to find out who did it.The president meets with Voyles and Gminski for an update, but the FBI does not have any suspects yet. Callahan is watching Gray being interviewed on TV since he interviewed Rosenberg earlier the day he was killed. Since Rosenberg is dead, Gray reveals an off the record remark Rosenberg made about the president's aggressive campaign for the White House. Callahan comments to Darby about how much he likes Gray. Darby tells Callahan that she was doing research in the library about the justices. Darby says that everyone is assuming the motive must be hatred or revenge, but maybe the motive is just about a pending case who's decision could have really big financial implications.Darby develops a theory involving a case that hasn't even started the appeal process yet being involved. She writes the Pelican Brief about the theory. She decides it's a ludicrous idea but allows Callahan to take the brief to read over when he asks.Callahan goes to DC for Rosenberg's memorial. He meets up with a buddy from law school, GAVIN Verheek (John Heard), who is an attorney for the FBI, specifically Voyles' chief counsel. While talking about the assassinations, Gavin says the FBI has no idea who was behind it. Callahan mentions that his girlfriend has an interesting theory about it and gives Gavin a copy of Darby's brief to read.Gray returns home after an early morning run to his phone ringing. It's a lawyer who says he may have information about the justices' murders. The lawyer gives Gray a fake name, Garcia. GARCIA (Jake Webber) says he saw something at work he was not supposed to. Garcia gets scared and hangs up. Gray does something on his phone to get the phone number of the last incoming call. Garcia calls Gray again. This time, Gray has the call forwarded to his car phone as he is staking out the payphone he traced Garcia's previous incoming call from which Garcia is calling from again. Garcia is still scared and tells Gray he'll get back to him. As Garcia hangs up and leaves the payphone booth, Gray takes pictures of him. Gray tries to discreetly follow Garcia, but Gray loses him when Garcia gets into a cab.Coal is in a meeting getting an update about the investigation from the FBI. He's informed that Khamel, a terrorist, arrived on a flight to Paris that left Dulles just ten hours after Jensen was killed. Coal is then given a copy of Darby's brief inside an FBI binder and told Director Voyles wanted him to be aware as it implicates the White House. Coal brings the brief to the president.Callahan drinks too much while out to dinner with Darby. When Callahan refuses to let Darby drive, Darby says she's going to walk and starts walking away. Callahan tries to start the car, but the engine stutters. Callahan calls out to Darby saying something romantic, and then tries to start the car again which blows up killing Callahan.Darby is in shock when she is approached by a man who identifies himself as Sgt. RUPERT (Christopher Murray). He puts her in the front seat of his car and asks for her name. He walks off when he hears a siren approaching. Darby is then approached by another detective who takes her to the hospital. At the hospital, the detective informs Darby that the name given to her by the detective who put her in the car doesn't exist in the police database and the car had fake tags. After the detective goes to move the car briefly, Darby, starting to fear the implications of that information, gets up and quietly walks out of the hospital trying not to draw attention to herself. She checks into a hotel using her credit card.Darby calls Gavin asking him if Callahan gave him her brief and who has all seen it. Darby tells Gavin about Callahan's murder. Gavin asks Darby where she is staying so he can send agents to protect her, but Darby doesn't trust him and says Callahan is dead because he talked to Gavin and to tell Voyles that.Voyles meets with the president in the oval office. The president wants Voyles to back off the Pelican Brief theory for at least a couple weeks. Voyles agrees as long as the president gets Coal to stop criticizing the FBI in the press for their failed protection of the justices. Coal is watching the conversation on security monitors from another room.While leaving her hotel, Darby is chased by a man, STUMP (Nicholas Woodeson). She gets away and discreetly checks into a different hotel, this time paying with cash instead of using her credit card. Darby calls Gavin again. She asks what Voyles said, but Gavin says he hasn't had a chance to speak with him yet. Gavin says he is coming to town tonight for Callahan's memorial service tomorrow and wants to meet with Darby.Gminski and other CIA agents spy on Darby as she watches TV in her hotel room from another building. Gray receives a call from Garcia to meet. Garcia calls back hesitant, and Gray accidentally lets slip that he knows Garcia works at a firm causing Garcia to hang up. Gray's phone rings again, but this time, it's Darby. She asks Gray if he's heard of the Pelican Brief to which he answers no. She explains what the brief is and how her boyfriend gave it to the FBI and that he's since been murdered. Gray starts asking for some details, but Darby isn't ready to tell him any yet. She asks Gray to get a list of all the major donors to the president's last campaign and says she'll be in touch.Darby's classmate ALICE (Cynthia Nixon) meets Darby at a bar. Alice tells Darby that her computer, floppy disks, and paperwork are missing from Darby's apartment. Darby asks Alice to spread misinformation about Darby's whereabouts at Callahan's memorial the next day. Alice was followed from Darby's apartment by a man who signals Stump as Darby is leaving. Darby sees Stump and gets away with help from random pedestrians. Rupert discreetly watches all of this unfold.Khamel knocks on another hotel room door again asking for Mr. Sneller, and is passed an envelope under the door just like it happened in the beginning of the movie. Khamel opens the envelope and takes out a picture of Darby.Darby looks over Callahan's memorial from a building across the way. Both Stump and Rupert are separately staking out the memorial. Gavin looks around before going into the memorial. Alice tells other classmates that Darby is staying with an aunt in Colorado. Later that night, Gavin is back at his hotel and receives a call from Darby. She makes a plan to meet him the next day and tells him to wear a long sleeve shirt and red baseball cap so she'll know it's him. She asks how tall Gavin is and how much he weighs. Khamel, who has been hiding in Gavin's hotel room closet, shoots Gavin in the head and then retrieves a recorder that was hooked up to the phone hidden under the nightstand. He plays back Gavin's entire phone call with Darby.The next day, Khamel dresses in the clothes specified by Darby and stuffs something in his waist to appear heavier as Gavin described himself. Khamel also practices trying to sound like Gavin. Khamel goes to the location set by Darby to meet. Darby approaches Khamel, believing it to be Gavin, and they walk together. Rupert is seen looking on. As they walk together, Khamel discreetly pulls out a gun and hides it under his shirt preparing to kill Darby. Before Khamel shoots the gun, Khamel is shot in the back of the head and killed, but it is not known by whom. Darby runs away.Marty VELMANO (Anthony Heald) is sitting in his office when his assistant tells him he has a phone call from Sneller. Once Velmano picks up, Sneller informs him Khamel was killed by someone unknown and Darby is on the run. Once Velmano hangs up the phone, he looks out his window that looks out over the lobby of the building.Darby calls Gray and tells him there has been another murder. Darby asks Gray to come to New York to meet her, but Gray says he needs some information he can verify before coming to make sure it isn't a prank. Darby gives him Callahan's and Gavin's name to verify their deaths.Gray meets Darby in a hotel. Gray tells Darby that he verified the details of Callahan's death, but that Gavin was found dead in his hotel killed the day before Darby said. Darby doesn't understand how that is possible. Gray turns on a tape recorder and Darby starts to tell him about the Pelican Brief.Coal is riding in a limo with BARR (John Finn) who is finishing up reading the Pelican Brief. Barr tells Coal that they've bugged Gray's car phone but haven't been able to put a bug in his place yet. Coal tells Barr that Gray must have seen the brief because he's been calling around to verify certain information.Darby finishes telling Gray about the brief. Gray asks her for her real name and why she chose him to report the story to. Darby tells him her name and that Callahan was a fan of Gray. Darby asks Gray to stay at the hotel sleeping on the couch to which Gray agrees. Darby goes to bed while Gray starts replaying the taped conversation to go over his notes. The tape recording plays with Darby explaining the Pelican Brief. Victor MATTIECE, an oil tycoon, drilled and struck oil in Southern Louisiana. Because of the location of the oil, the company would have to make structural changes to the landscape to be able to move equipment in as well as the oil out. The tycoon becomes a major political contributor to aid in getting government approval for the changes, but an environmental group files a lawsuit because a near extinct breed of pelican lives in the affected area. A jury trial occurs that results in the tycoon winning, but the trial judge believes the environmentalists have proven their case and maintains the current injunction against drilling in place for the case to be appealed. The case will be appealed to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, and regardless of who wins the appeal, the case will then be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The case is likely to reach and be decided at that level in anywhere from 3-5 years, so the tycoon contracts the assassination of two justices likely to rule against him so justices more likely to vote in his favor can be appointed now under this president. Darby explains that even though Rosenberg and Jensen disagreed on most issues, they were both big on protecting the environment. As the tape finishes up, Gray makes a chart showing Garcia>Law Firm>Mattiece>White House.When Darby wakes up, Gray asks her if she is aware of any DC law firms that have done work for Mattiece. She knows of two and names them for him. Gray tells Darby about Garcia and that he probably works for one of those two firms. Gray tells Darby that Garcia could be the confirmation of her brief and he needs her to go to DC with him. Darby is scared and refuses to go.Darby leaves a voicemail for Gray at his apartment saying she's leaving the country. Gray's editor, Smith KEEN (John Lithgow), threatens to take him off the story if he doesn't come up with something new to stay on it. Gray goes to stay at his cabin in the woods for a few days. While watching the PBS special Darby mentioned sparked her interest to write the brief, Darby arrives at the cabin. Darby explains she left the voicemail so if Gray's phone was bugged, they would think she had left the country.The president enters his limo after attending Jensen's funeral. Coal is in the limo and tells the president he fears Gray has the brief. Coal tells the president he is working on handling the situation and goes over some other possible options should the brief come out such as appointing environmentally friendly judges to the court so there appears to be no motive.Gray has Keen meet him at Mt. Vernon where Gray informs him about Darby resurfacing. While driving back, Keen asks Gray where Gray is staying so Keen can reach him if needed, and Gray tells him his hotel and room number. When Gray gets back to the hotel room, an intruder is in his room and escapes out of the window. Gray immediately leaves in a cab to go to Darby. Rupert tries to follow him, but Gray gets out of the cab and loses Rupert in a protest crowd.Darby and Gray come up with a plan to discover Garcia's real identity. They get a list of law school students who clerked at the firm the previous summer they think Garcia probably works at and meet up with the students to see if they can identify Garcia from the picture taken of him by Gray. They luck out when the final student on their list identifies Garcia as CURTIS Morgan.Darby shows up at the law firm claiming to have an appointment with Curtis. Darby is seen walking through the same office lobby Velmano's office overlooks. Darby is informed Curtis was killed last week in what appeared to be a mugging. Darby leaves in a hurry. She enters the parking garage where she bumps into Sneller and Velmano before getting into a waiting car that Gray drives off. Darby tells Gray about Curtis' death. Gray confirms the story of Curtis' death with Keen and gets Curtis' address. Gray encourages Darby to run away, but she refuses.Sneller, Stump, and an unknown woman and man discreetly meet up by a national monument. Darby and Gray go to Curtis' house to speak with his wife, but her father turns them away saying she doesn't want to talk to anyone. Gray leaves his number at the house in case Mrs. Morgan wants to contact him. As Darby and Gray are leaving, Sneller and Stump are spying on them from a parked car and follow them.Gray receives a call late at night from Mrs. Morgan asking if he still wants to talk with her. Gray meets with Mrs. Morgan at her house. Mrs. Morgan says she doesn't know anything about what her husband knew, but she found a key to a safety deposit box at a bank with which she is unfamiliar. Stump is sitting in a car listening to the entire conversation between Gray and Mrs. Morgan over some kind of listening device. Mrs. Morgan gives Gray the key and makes Gray promise if he finds anything negative about her husband in the box, he won't use it.The next day, Darby and Gray park in a parking garage by the bank. Once they exit the garage on foot, Stump pulls into the parking garage, locates their car, and plants a car bomb in it. Darby enters the bank and goes downstairs to the safety deposit box section. The unknown man and woman who met up with Sneller and Stump walk in behind Darby. Darby pretends to be Mrs. Morgan and provides personal information of Curtis to gain access to the box. Inside the box is a VHS tape and a manila envelope. Darby puts both in her purse and walks out. Gray meets Darby outside the bank and they walk back to the garage being followed by the unknown man and woman. Once inside the car, Darby pulls out the envelope and starts going through the paperwork inside. Inside the envelope was an affidavit written by Curtis explaining that when someone put files on his desk, they inadvertently put a handwritten memo at the bottom of the stack. He made a copy of the memo which is attached to the affidavit and put the original back on the partner's desk. As Gray goes to start the car, the engine stutters just as it had when Callahan was starting the car right before it blew up. Darby recognizes the sounds and prevents Gray from starting the car, and they both get out of the car and start running which surprises Stump who was watching from his car close by. The unknown man and woman start chasing and shooting at Darby and Gray. Stump starts chasing them in his car, but Stump ends up crashing into the car Darby and Gray got out of causing the car bomb to detonate blowing up Stump's car as well.Darby and Gray go to the Washington Herald office where Gray introduces Darby and Keen. They play the tape. The tape is a video message Curtis left for his wife. Curtis says the memo is from Velmano, who is a senior partner at the firm, to another attorney at the firm whose only client was Mattiece. The memo talks about "retiring" Justices Rosenberg and Jensen, and that the pelican case should reach the Supreme Court in 4 years.Gray calls Velmano and Coal separately telling them about the story that will be running in tomorrow's paper about the conspiracy asking if they'd like to comment. Gray also calls Voyles who then shows up at the Herald office. Coal goes into the oval office and tells the president about the update whose face looks shocked. Darby and Gray enter a conference room where Keen, Voyles, and another FBI agent are already seated at the table. Voyles explains on the record when the FBI received a copy of the Pelican Brief, but that it wasn't taken seriously until after Gavin's murder. Voyles explains off the record that he met with the president who asked Voyles to back off investigating any of the allegations in the Pelican Brief. Everyone leaves the room except Darby, Gray, and Voyles. Darby asks who killed the man next to her she thought was Gavin. Voyles says Rupert, a CIA operative. Voyles says the brief scared Gminski more than anyone, so he probably sent Rupert to watch and protect Darby. Voyles arranges for Darby to be flown out of the country on his FBI plane.Gray accompanies Darby on the flight. After the plane lands and they step off, they are handed a manila envelope. Inside is a print out copy of the Washington Herald with the front page containing multiple stories about the assassination plot, the Pelican Brief, and the president's connection. Darby and Gray embrace and say goodbye. Gray gets back on the plane and returns to Washington.Gray is on TV being interviewed. The interviewer points out that Victor Mattiece along with some of his aides and attorneys have been indicted, Coal has resigned, and the president may not even run for re-election. The interviewer asks Gray about Darby and her whereabouts, but Gray dances around or doesn't answer the questions just smiling. Darby is watching the interview on TV and smiles. THE END.